Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
[Music] You're watching special coverage of Yahoo Finance. I'm Brad Smith alongside Madison Mills this morning. Treasury Secretary Scott Besson set to speak any moment now at the White House. You're looking at live photos from the White House. Just moments away from those remarks here.
We are going to get it over to our very own Jennifer Shamberger for a broader look at what we can expect this morning. If we do have Jennifer with us, we are going to go over to you, Jennifer. Good morning, Maddie. It's great to see you guys. Uh, today marks the first 100 days since President Trump took office and how befitting that the administration is trotting out Treasury Secretary Scott Besson.
given how central he is to trade and how central trade has been to the president's agenda here in the first 100 days. Of course, still so many question marks over how this will all play out, how these trade deals will come together, particularly when it comes to China. As you both know, we've been getting some mixed signals out of the administration when it comes to China.
The president signaling that perhaps he has had talks with China, but Secretary Besson batting that down, saying that no, we have to have tariffs come down before we can begin talks with China. And indeed, yesterday, China confirming Besson's side, saying there have been no talks whatsoever so far between the US and China.
Of course, Besson has said that these levels are unsustainable and given how high tariffs are on China, that should bring them back to the table. However, China not blinking at this point, saying that it's really up to the US to unilaterally bring down tariffs before talks can start. So, uh, clearly a staring contest ongoing here. We'll see if we get any new news from the secretary this morning as it pertains to China, though I wouldn't expect much.
I will be looking for any news around potential deals uh with India and South Korea. As the secretary has said, those are forthcoming. He had mentioned that we could see some details this week uh particularly on South Korea and I'm sure you saw this morning in the Wall Street Journal a report that uh the president looking to soften the blow when it comes to tariffs on automakers just as GM has uh pulled his its guidance for the year.
So curious whether uh the secretary will address those questions as well. Jen, how much expectation do we have around anything that he might say about exemptions? Because that's something that the market has paid close attention to and CEOs who have tried to had the have the ear of the president and his cabinet members as well.
You know, look, Brad, we'll see. Of course, the administration a couple weeks ago, the days all bund together now, um had said that they are uh going to create an exemption for smartphones, uh tablets, and semiconductors. At the same time, we do know that the USR is studying uh tariffs for semiconductors under section 232.
Don't know whether we'll see any news on that front. And to your point, when it comes to exemptions around those auto tariffs, as we're seeing reported out of the journal this morning, whether the secretary addresses that or not. I kind of have to wonder though given that today is actually the 100 day mark whether this is sort of meant to be a victory lap for hey you know we have had really high tariffs and non-tariff barriers and we are going in and we are cutting this out and we are trying to bring all of these barriers down to create freer freer fairer trade uh so
we'll see what the secretary has to say but also as you know I want to point out that the stock market and and businesses have not taken Well, to this the stock market performance over the first 100 days, the worst since President Ford just after Nixon had left office. Certainly really great context there, Jennifer. Thank you so much.
We're going to bring in Terry Haynes, Pangia Policy founder, to discuss what we could expect from these remarks from the Treasury Secretary and also more broadly the current status of the trade war. Terry, it's great to have you on here. We've heard from Treasury Secretary Scott Besson in recent days that he expects deals to be announced in either a week or two weeks.
To what extent do you feel that that is likely that we will start to get deal making news in about these trade negotiations? Good morning, Mattie. I I would I would expect Besson to be good on his word. Uh I would not expect uh there to be uh you know final final deals on a lot of this stuff. Uh but but they will be in a position in a couple of weeks I think uh to share more details than they're able to share now in the middle of negotiations uh about progress.
And I think uh what you're going to see today from Bessant likely is all about progress. Consider Bessant talking to the markets today while Trump not so incidentally in Michigan is will end up talking uh to workers and and core parts of his own coalition politically that he'd like to to keep on and explain a little bit more about what he's doing and why he's doing it.
Terry, you know, we could we could come out in here and we're all kind of just waiting and sitting on the edge of our ergonomic chairs to see if he says the thing that we want them to discuss and acknowledge, which is tariffs, which is what many CEOs want more clarity on. But he could very much come out here and just take a victory lap and talk about the first 100 days and have much of the same commentary that he's publishing to his Twitter account or the Treasury Secretary Twitter account at this point.
What type of tone do you think needs to be set as we're it seems like getting a little bit more movement within the room? What type of tone do you think needs to be set at this juncture? And what is the critical point that Besson needs to address? Well, what what I think Besson needs to be doing, frankly, is two things.
One is uh is providing uh providing updates, but secondly, providing context. And it's not a uh uh it's not a coincidence that Bessant will be doing this in Washington at the same time Trump is elsewhere and uh and you know we'll talk later in the day but is elsewhere and uh and they want a little bit more what markets want fundamentally is and you know people generally want is a little bit more context about the path forward.
So I think what you're going to hear from Besson is not just about trade but also about the broader economic uh policy that they're trying to put forward including extension of the 2017 tax law including uh reshoring manufacturing providing incentives for that uh including what they call energy dominance including deregulation all those sorts of things that that has impacts on markets but uh but Bessonet I think will be speaking not just to markets but to political Washington as well in a way that uh that he hasn't done as much recently. Terry, as he was
tweeting about this or exing or posting whatever he was doing on the platform, putting up a social post saying that the president has come off the block with lightning speed for CEOs, they have a far different analysis. And for even Main Street, which they say that the administration is laser focused on, they have a different analysis as their businesses have been impacted.
The stock market has pulled back into correction and teetered with bare market territory at one point. So all that considered, what is the grade do you think those CEOs are giving this first 100 days? What grade do you give this first 100 days? Um I think I give the same I I think I give the same grade as a lot of those CEOs would give incompletes.
uh you know there everybody's will have lists of uh what they think the president's uh you know best accomplishments greatest successes are whatever his failures are uh but uh the economic policy right now uh from a CEO perspective from a markets perspective has to be an incomplete uh markets have known since since the day the election happened that there were going to be a variety of economic policy initiatives and and those were going to be on different tracks.
Uh that's playing out that way. Generally speaking, I don't think I'm not meaning to to downplay the uh the vicissitudes of any of this. But I but I do think that uh that where markets will be is look, you know, we we really expect the rest of this the stuff we really really like like uh extension of the tax laws to come on.
Some people will say that's already priced in. that may be, but nonetheless they expect it and they expect the other things deregulation and the like to uh to continue to stoke economic growth in the United States. And you know, you have to remember also and this is implicit in a lot of what Bessins has to say that is implicit is this is about economic policy, but this is economic policy in service of geopolitics.
And uh their view their view in the administration is that if they make the economic uh growth in the United States not only uh larger but more durable uh they put themselves in the best geopolitical position uh to deal with China and deal with other nations and so that shouldn't be lost either. All right Terry uh stay with us.
Let's listen in to Treasury Secretary Besson's remarks. Happy first 100 days. Before we begin, I want to acknowledge that the bipartisan Take It Down Act passed the House last night. This important legislation was championed and guided through Congress by our wonderful first lady Melania Trump, including through her direct advocacy on behalf of survivors during her passage, the the passage efforts.
The Take It Down Act criminalizes the publication of non-consensual im intimate imagery and requires social media and similar websites to remove such content within 48 hours of notice from a victim. The first lady thanks all those who voted in favor of this important legislation and the president looks forward to signing it when it arrives on his desk.
Today officially marks 100 days of promises made and promises kept by President Trump. This has truly been the most historic start to a presidency in American history. After building the greatest economy in the world in his first term as president, President Trump is in the process of doing that all over again.
The American people trust in President Trump. Since his first day in office, President Trump has focused on defeating the Biden inflation crisis, bringing down the cost of living, and making the United States the best place in the world to do business, invest, create jobs, and innovate. And President Trump's efforts are working. 345,000 jobs have already been added since the start of President Trump's term.
Last month's jobs report saw nearly 100,000 more jobs than economists predicted and it was the fourth highest month for private payroll growth in the past two years. 9,000 manufacturing jobs have been added to the economy already. This is a sharp contrast to the 6,000 manufacturing jobs that were lost each month in the final two years of the Biden administration.
The US employment rate remains at historic lows. And thanks to President Trump, Americans are seeing price relief for the first time in years. The last inflation report showed the first consumer price decline since the COVID pandemic, a decrease in energy prices, and real average hourly wage growth. President Trump is delivering on his promises to lower costs for American families and businesses.
Prices across the board for everyday goods have seen decline since this president was inaugurated. From airfare to used motor vehicles to pres prescription drugs, prices are dropping. In fact, last month's drop in the price of prescription drugs was the largest ever recorded. And after Joe Biden botched the response to the bird flu, President Trump and Secretary Rollins aggressive plan have brought down wholesale egg prices more than 50% from inauguration day.
President Trump ended Joe Biden's reckless war on American energy and fossil fuels and has restored American energy dominance and Secretary Wright Secretary Doug Bergam are working hard on that effort every single day. Oil and gas prices are now way down because of this bold approach. Gasoline prices down 7%. Energy down energy prices are also down as well.
The Department of Interior just announced a new offshore drilling policy that will boost oil production in the Gulf of America by 100,000 barrels per day. On the deregulation front, President Trump is committed to cutting senseless red tape, especially for America's small business owners who are the backbone of our economy.
We know cutting regulation leads to lower costs and higher growth. The mass deregulation effort by this administration will help usher in the golden age of America which is underway. Immediately upon taking office, President Trump blocked all of the unifi unfalized Biden era rules, saving America's more than 100 billion dollars or 2100 per family of four over the next decade.
And the president also launched a bold multi- agency effort to roll back existing federal regulations that drive up the cost of living on hardworking families. This effort is projected to yield significant cost savings in the coming months, including the EPA's roll back of tailpipe emission rules for light duty and medium duty vehicles and the Department of Transportation's latest corporate average fuel economy standards.
These two efforts alone yield $755 billion in total savings or more than 8,800 per family of four over the next decade. In total, the combined savings from all of these act actions equal just over $935 billion or nearly 11,000 in real savings per family of four per the coming decade. The press is not talking nearly enough about the positive impact of President Trump's deregulation campaign, and investments from the biggest companies and countries in the world are pouring in under this president.
So far, total investment commitments under the Trump administration have reached more than $5 trillion, including 500 billion from Apple in US-based manufacturing and training, 500 billion from Nvidia and AI infrastructure, 100 billion from TSMC and US-based chips manufacturing, and the $500 billion private investment by OpenAI, Oracle, and SoftBank in AI infrastructure as well.
All of these investment commitments are estimated to generate at least 451,000 new highpaying jobs for American workers and families. At this point, President Trump has secured more investments in the United States of America in 100 days than Joe Biden did in four years. President Trump is America's businessman chief, and that's why these trillions of dollars in investments are flooding to our country.
The business community is bullish on America because President Trump is back in charge. Tomorrow, the president will host CEOs and leaders from several companies that have made these investments to tout their historic commitments to our country and encourage others to follow suit. Under President Trump, there has never been a better time to invest in America.
And the president finally said, "Enough is enough." And refused to allow America and our workers to be ripped off any longer on trade. President Trump implemented powerful tariffs to end the era of economic surrender and to rebalance America's trading agreements. More than 100 countries have already come to the table looking to offer more favorable terms for America and our people.
There has never been a president who has created his own leverage like this president. And we are just getting started. Republicans in Congress are getting very close to passing President Trump's one big beautiful bill which will include the largest tax cuts in American history. strong border security measures, major military advancements, dramatic deregulation, and common sense spending reforms.
As President Trump has said before, the best is yet to come. For more on President Trump's economic successes so far and the plans ahead, I want to pass it off to our incredible Treasury Secretary, Scott Bessant, who is here today, and we will open it up to questions. In our new media seat, we have Brendan Peterson, the financial services reporter for Punch Bowl News.
Punch Bowl News covers power, people, and politics based in Washington DC. Laser focused on Capitol Hill, the politics of legislating, founded in 2021, and it is the first newsletter that Capitol Hill and the White House reads every morning in the middle of the day and throughout the evening. Thanks for being here with us and we'll start with you today.
Um, thanks so much for being here. I have a question for Secretary Besson. Um on tariffs, uh the president said over the weekend that we are hoping that maybe tariff revenues could replace income tax. Um but we also keep hearing about the deals that the administration is pursuing. So my question is what is the White House's ultimate object objective here? Do you want to have long-term tariff revenue or deals that might reduce those tariffs? Uh I think it's a combination of both.
So, we're going to take in long-term tariff revenue. We put a process in place. We have 18 important trading relationships. Uh we will be speaking to all of those partners, at least 17 of them. The over the next few weeks, many of them have already come to Washington. Uh what President Trump is referring to is the ability for tariff revenue to give income tax relief.
And I think there's a very good chance that we will see this in the upcoming tax bill. The president campaigned on no tax on tips, the no tax on social security, no tax on overtime, and the restoring interest deductibility for autos uh for Americanmade autos. So, uh tariff income could be used for tax relief on all those immediately.
So you think that there is a role for significant tariff revenue in US fiscal policy? Uh I I think that it is something that got put away a long time ago and I think that tariffs uh will bring back American manufacturing and generate substantial revenues. On manufacturing, we've seen some pretty grizzly surveys this month from the Philly Fed, u which saw the biggest drop since May of 2020, and the Dallas Fed, similar plunging outlook, poor shipping orders.
What are American manufacturers not understanding about your push for onoring in the US? Well, I I think you know I was in the investment business 35 years and I learned to ignore the survey data and look or the surveys look at the actual data and the actual data has been quite good. The job data is good. Americans keep spending and as Caroline said we have these incredible commitments to bring manufacturing back on shore with record uh investment by domestic corporations and foreigners who want to come into the US. Ouija.
Thank you so much, Caroline. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The Chinese continue to say that the US and China are not engaged in any consultation or negotiation on tariffs. You recently said, you've talked to your counterpart, but more about quote traditional things like financial stability. So, can you clarify is the administration talking to Beijing specifically about tariffs or not? Well, we're not going to talk about who's talking to whom, but I think that, you know, over time we will see that the chi Chinese tariffs are unsustainable for
China. I've saw I've seen some very large numbers over the past few days to show if these numbers stay on, Chinese could lose 10 million jobs very quickly and even if there is a drop in the tariffs that they could lose 5 million jobs. So remember that we are the deficit country. They sell almost five times more goods to us than we sell to them.
So the onus will be on them to the uh take off these tariffs. They're unsustainable for them and they are saying you guys are not talking about it. So is that true? Uh they have a different form of government. They're playing to a different audience. So, u I'm not going to get into, uh, the the nitty-gritty again of who's talking to whom.
Uh, but as I said, I believe for the Chinese, uh, these tariffs are unsustainable. And very quickly, two days ago, you said you didn't know if President Trump had spoken to Xi Jinping. Do you know now? Again, I would say Carolina and I have a lot of jobs around the White House running the switchboard in one of them. Bloomberg, go ahead.
Secretary Bis, thank you so much for being here this morning. Um you've talked about the importance of giving investors certainty um when it comes to the market. Yet the Trump administration is is continuing to negotiate several complex trade deals in a very sort of compressed time frame. When do you when do you expect you'll be able to give the market some certainty around those deals? You have a deadline.
Is it the 90-day pause? What are we looking at here? Good question. And I I think one thing that has been a little disconcerting for the markets is, you know, President Trump creates what I would call strategic uncertainty in the negotiations. So he is more concerned about getting the best possible trade deals the for the American people.
You know, we had four years of bad deals for decades the of unfair trading and we are going to the unwind those and make them fair. What we are doing is we've created a process. I think the aperture of uncertainty will be narrowing and as we start moving forward announcing deals then there will be certainty but you know it's certainty is not necessarily a good thing in negotiating. Mr.
Secretary last night there there were reports on the administration sort of walking back a little bit on the auto tariffs. Can you sort of just elaborate on that decision there and what we can expect going going forward and why sort of the shift in this auto chair? Well, President Trump has had meetings with both domestic and for excuse me, foreign auto producers and he's committed to bringing back auto production to the US.
So, we want to give the automakers a path to do that uh quickly, efficiently, and create as many jobs as possible. Jasmine, thank you so much, Caroline. Thank you, Secretary. Back on China, does the administration anticipate anticipate supply chain shocks or supply shocks coming um now that cargo shipments from China are significantly down? And if so, are there being plans or are there plans uh in the process of how to address that? I I wouldn't think that we would have supply chain shocks and I think retailers, they have managed
their inventory in in front of this. You know, I I speak to dozens of companies, sometimes daily, they but definitely weekly and uh they know that President Trump is committed to fair trade and have planned accordingly. And then second question, can you outline the timeline for when you think some of these deals particularly with your Asian countries like India, Japan, South Korea, uh you may have an announcement? I I'm glad you brought up our Asian trading partners and allies.
uh they have been uh the most forthcoming in terms of doing the deals. As I mentioned, Vice President Vance was in India last week. I think that he and Modi made some very good progress. So, I could see some announcements on India. I could see the contours of a deal with the pro Republic of Korea coming together and then we've had substantial talks with the Japanese.
Andrew, Secretary Vesson, just uh continuing on the path of the sort of like progress. You said last or yesterday, I think that it was uh could happen as early as this week or possibly next week. Can you give us a bit of a timetable? And then um I wanted to ask about South Korea specifically. They've said that they probably won't be able to make a comprehensive deal until early July because of their elections.
Japan also has elections. And to what extent are domestic factors complicating your efforts? Canada just had an election. You know, are you are you seeing that you might have to think about delaying the 90 days? Well, I I I would actually take the opposite tact that I think the from our talks that these governments actually want to have the framework of a trade deal done before they go into elections to show that they have successfully negotiated with the United States.
So we are finding that they are actually much more keen to come to the table, get this done and then go home and campaign on it. Sean, was there I'm sorry. Did you have a comment on whether it's going to something could happen this week or next week for for a deal? You know, you said yesterday I I again I think that we are very close on India and uh in India uh you know just a little inside baseball India in a funny way uh is easier to negotiate with than many other countries because they have very high tariffs and lots of tariffs.
So it's much easier to confront the direct tariffs when uh as we go through these unfair trade deals that have been put in over decades that the non-tariff trade barriers can be much more insidious and also harder to detect. So a country like India which has the you know posted and ready tariffs it's much easier to negotiate with them.
So you know I think the India negotiations are moving well. Sean, hi, Mr. Secretary. Um, so it was reported this morning that Amazon will soon display a little number next to the price of each product that shows how much the Trump tariffs are adding to the cost of each product. So, isn't that a perfect crystal clear demonstration that it's the American consumer and not China who is going to have to pay for these policies? I will uh take this since I just got off the phone with the president about Amazon's announcement. Uh this is a hostile and
political act by Amazon. Why did Amazon do this when the Biden administration hiked inflation to the highest level in 40 years? And I would also add that uh it's not a surprise because as Reuters recently wrote um Amazon has partnered with a Chinese propaganda arm. Um so this is another reason why Americans should buy American.
It's another reason why we are onshoring critical supply chains here at home to shore up our own critical supply chain uh and boost our own manufacturing. Is Jeff Bezos still a Trump supporter? Uh look, I will not speak to the president's uh relationships with uh Jeff Bezos, but I will tell you u that this is certainly a hostile and political action by Amazon.
And Secretary, if you have anything to add. Yeah, I would also add that the bring bringing down the the terrible Biden infliction has been a priority for the first 100 days of the Trump administration and President Trump has done a great job of leading that uh since January 20th. Uh interest rates, mortgage rates are down.
Uh gasoline and energy prices are down. We're expecting the further decreases. And as Caroline said, uh the big tax on consumers that goes unnoticed is deregulation or regulation. And we are deregulating and bringing that down. So, you know, from a household income point of view, we would expect real purchasing increases that we've seen them over the first 100 days and we would expect that to accelerate.
We we are doing peace deals, trade deals, tax deals, and deregulating. and the deregulation uh is a longer lead time, but I think by the third and fourth quarters that's really going to kick in. Thank you, Caroline. Uh a question for you and Secretary Bess. We talk a lot about volatility and uncertainty in the marketplace and the president has stated all along that he's more concerned about mainstream America, the American worker.
You just talked about deregulation and this entire fair trade and reciprocals. What is your message to the American people uh in terms of letting them get through this disturbance and the outcome being greater and a greater good for the American worker, the American people, the American families? I would say trust in President Trump.
Uh there is a reason he was reelected to this office. It's because of the historic success of his economic formula in the first term. As I laid out at the beginning of the briefing and the secretary has talked about and the president talks about every day, there's a proven formula that works. Massive deregulation, uh, energy independence and tax cuts which are coming and the secretary is working very hard on that with our counterparts on Capitol Hill.
U if you want to talk about that, that's a huge deal to put more money back into the pockets of hardworking Americans. As for the fair trade deals the president is trying to negotiate, he's not just writing the wrong of the mess that he inherited from the past four years of the Biden administration, this is a mess that has been created for the past four decades that has sold out the middle class that has moved jobs overseas.
You think about our heartland, middle America, what towns used to look like, what they look like today. President Trump wants to restore the golden age, and it's a process to do that. And that process is underway. But he's put together a fantastic trade team. Secretary Besson, Secretary Lutnick, Jameson Greer, all working incredibly hard on this effort 24/7, but tax cuts are coming and that's key. And uh Mr.
Secretary, why don't you talk a little bit about that? Yep. So, it's really it's really a three-legged stool in the economic policy. It it's trade the its tax and its deregulation. So, we are in the midst of addressing, as Caroline said, these long-term trade imbalances. uh the tax uh bill is going much better than I would have thought when I the uh took office on January 28th and that's through President Trump's leadership that Speaker Johnson leader Thun are united uh Speaker Johnson we had a very good meeting yesterday uh with somebody called the
big six NC director Kevin Hasset myself speaker Johnson leader thun uh committee chairman Jason Smith and Senator Crapo. And the tax bill is moving forward. It is going to give permanence to the 2017 tax cuts and job act which will back to the question on certainty. It will give American business certainty.
It will give American people certainty. And then President Trump is also adding the things for working Americans that is talked about earlier. No tax on tips, no tax on overtime, no tax on social security, making auto payments deductible. So that will substantially address the affordability crisis. And you know the other thing that I would note and back to data is that the Vanguard, one of the largest money management firms in America, said that over the past 100 days, 97% of Americans haven't done a trade. And in fact,
individual investors have held tight while institutional investors have panicked. So in individual investors trust in in individual the investors trust President Trump. Megan in the back. Thank you both. Can you detail for us exactly what we should expect as far as relief on the auto tariffs front? And then further, Mr.
Secretary, should we expect other industries to also get relief the way we've now seen for auto and tech as well? I'm not going to go into the details the of the uh auto tariff relief, but I can tell you that it will go substantially toward reshoring American auto manufacturing and uh again the goal here is to bring back the high quality industrial jobs to the US.
President Trump is interested in the jobs of the future, not the jobs of the past. You know, we we don't need to necessarily have a booming textile industry like where I grew up again, but we do want to have precision manufacturing and bring that back. And you know, another important very important function of this that does not get talked about enough is national security.
President Trump the his overriding the concern and belief is that economic security is national security. National security is economic security and we saw during co that our supply chains got cut off and we need to bring back a lot of those supply chains whether it's in semiconductors medicines the steel and we have to onshore those.
So, it's a combination of making trade free and fair and remedying this gaping national security hole that he was left with. And if I could on I would just add Megan, the president will sign the executive order on auto tariffs later today and we will release it as we always do. Go ahead. Secretary, any updates on the negotiation with the European Union and is it hard to negotiate with the European Union? Pardon.
Do you have any updates on the negotiation with the European Union? the I I'm more involved the in the Asian negotiations. My observation would be goes all the way back to Henry Kissinger's statement. When I call Europe, who do I call? So, we're negotiating with a lot of different interests. Uh some of the European countries have put on an unfair digital service tax on our big internet provider.
You know, France and Italy, other countries, Germany and Poland, don't have that. So we we want to see that unfair tax of one of America's great industries removed. So it's going to be a give and take. So they have some internal matters to decide before they can engage in an external negotiation. Edward. Yeah. Thanks Caroline. Uh Mr. Secretary, so contacts I have in the business community say that they're they're basically frozen for long-term investment because of the uncertainty around tariffs.
How long do you think President Trump has to make a deal before there's damage to the economy? Uh, look, I I think that what we're seeing is that business leaders, they they've gone into a pause and I think we're going to give them great certainty on this tax bill. And I think over the next couple of weeks, as as I said, we have 18 important trading relationships.
We'll put China to the side. 17 they are in motion. And then as I said yesterday, I think there's a very good chance we're going to get this tax bill done. And the tax bill is going to be very powerful for domestic US investment. So what we are going to do, one of the most powerful parts of President Trump's 2017 tax bill was full expensing of equipment.
We are going to make that, as President Trump said in his speech to Congress, that will be retroactive to January 20th. The other thing that we are looking to add is full expensing for factories. So bring your factory back. You can fully expense the equipment and the building. We will couple that with deregulation, cheap energy and regulatory certainty and that will continue to make the US the greatest destination for domestic and foreign investment.
And the president if I can follow just the president said that world leaders would like to meet with him in Rome in Vatic in Vatican City. I'm sorry about uh trade other than President Zullinsky. Who did the president meet with and about trade and when could we get some of those deals? The the president met with President Zullinsky as you know which we talked about uh and the president continues to be engaged with uh his fellow foreign leader his fellow leaders around the world in the European Union.
You've seen many of them visit the White House. I want to harp on in closing the point the secretary just made on the campaign trail. The president promised the American public that he was going to make America the best country in the world to do business again. The lowest taxes, lowest regulation, lowest energy costs of anywhere in the world.
And if you do business in the United States, you won't pay a tariff. You won't pay a price. That's not just good for companies around the world, but it's good for the American worker. That's what this team is focused so hard on every day. We have uh work to do. The golden age of America is underway. Uh but as I pointed out in the beginning, there's a lot of reason for the American consumer, the American CEO, the American small business owner to be confident and optimistic about this president and where we're headed. So you will hear
more from the president himself later this evening. He is traveling to Michigan, as you all know. He'll make a stop at the Air Force base with Governor Whitmer and then we will head to a rally tonight where you'll hear more from him directly. So we'll see you in Michigan. Thank you guys. Thank you.
You just heard some remarks from Treasury Secretary Scott Besson answering questions from the White House from reporters about the impact of tariff policies. Mentioning a bit about where negotiations stand, talks with India, Japan in the works. Also talking a bit about the continued positioning that tax relief and deregulation will be policy sweeteners to come for markets and give some relief later this year.
Let's bring in our very own Jennifer Shamberger to run through the headlines. Hey Jennifer. Good morning Maddie. That's right. not getting too much more clarity on the trade front, specifically when it comes to China, that we did get confirmation that the president is going to offer some relief on tariffs when it comes to automakers and that the president will be signing an executive order later today.
Uh, Secretary Bessant was asked once again whether the US is in talks with China on trade and once again the secretary punting saying that he will not get into the nitty-gritty of who is talking to who. He reiterated that the tariffs are unsustainable when it comes to China, saying that if these tariffs were to stay in place that China could lose as many as 10 million jobs.
He said that even if those uh tariffs were to come down a bit, China still stands to lose five million jobs and that the onus is still on China to come to the table when it comes to tariff talks. Now, he did say that the US is close to a deal with India. He's also optimistic when it comes to some of those Asian countries, Japan and South Korea, and is confident that we could get they could get a deal uh within the 90day mark even as some of those countries have elections in their countries. We also got a bit of clarity
about whether the administration is looking to raise revenue from tariffs or to use tariffs as a negotiating tactic. Besson saying it's going to be a combination of both. We did learn that perhaps the administration is looking to raise revenue from tariffs to help pay for some of the president's tax promises.
Things like no tax on tips, no tax on social security, uh auto insurance uh deductions uh for consumers as well. Um now he he did say that uh when it comes to uncertainty around tariffs that he hopes that uh certainty around taxes will help businesses move forward and create jobs. He talked about the notion of fully expensing factories. Uh he says he's not expecting supply chain shocks and he did address Maddie uh something that Amazon has put forth uh reportedly that they are going to put uh how much of a price increase is going to be due to tariffs. Uh Caroline Levit
calling that politically hostile. Yeah. And Jennifer just to give a check on that Amazon pre-market down about two and a half% after those headlines. Thank you so much Jennifer. We're going to bring in Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy. He is the founder. Terry, great to speak with you again.
Thank you for sticking around for us. Did you get any clarity from those remarks about how the White House, how Treasury Secretary Scott Besson are handling these tariff negotiations? What stood out to you? Uh what I got was affirmation more than anything else. Uh you know, Besson I thought was at his clearest talking about uh the the the Trump view that national security is economic security.
Economic security is national security. as we discussed right before the press conference started uh also talked a lot about uh specifically you know the deals that are getting done and he referenced first geopolitics a peace deal a t tax deals trade deals deregulation deals so uh you know that he's trying to put it in as broad a context as possible and trying to explain uh to markets and to the public exactly what's going on.
Uh the other thing I would point out is on tariffs uh it's it's I think natural to be a little bit confused on this but in the perfect world in the perfect bessent world anyway uh the tariff revenues wouldn't exist because you'd have such great trade deals uh and that would advantage the United States frankly that you wouldn't be getting tariff uh tariff revenues as a result.
This is an imperfect world. So, Best, it's acknowledging there will continue to be some tariff revenues. And they've hit upon the idea of providing uh income tax relief with those, which is uh interesting and a very populist idea. Terry, one of the things that was mentioned within this is President Trump creating what Bessent called strategic uncertainty in the negotiations.
How much longer can the economy and the markets as well separately endure strategic uncertainty as it relates to I think they're going to have to endure that for I think they're going to have to endure that for a little while longer frankly. uh my bogey on uh on when you see uh real movement on trade deals generally uh should be July the 4th because then what you get is I I think they'll they'll announce a lot of tariff deals before then but what you get on July 4th is the idea that either reciprocal tariffs continue or they
don't continue. So uh you know I think what they've been looking at is is July 4th as a kind of backs stop. you know, it has a nice appeal of course, but um in America, but July 4th is kind of a backs stop to uh okay, we you know, we'll have two more months of this and you know, the things will be pretty much set up and then we will by that time markets will be moving to the benefits from tax cuts and deregulation and uh you know, I think Bess had foreshadowed that too.
Is that true that there's going to be all of this relief to come if we get deregulation and tax cuts? Um well I think it's true that the uh that markets react positively to it. Sure. Uh they expect it uh you know it's priced in to some extent but at the same time uh you know you know what you expect is all good and they'll get a lot more clarity which will probably help as well.
And then Terry just as we're continuing to watch the market's reaction to this. I mean we did see some slippage during the announcements as major averages right now are lower across the board. Fractionally as that may be, it seems that there are some areas that as we were discussing and and have discussed in the past that are still looking for exemptions to come forward.
Where do you think those ex exemptions need to be expanded to? And in the process of those exempt exemptions, is leverage lost along the way? Uh leverage of what kind? Leverage in negotiation over the course of the trade deals. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Um the I would look at you know any indust any sector or industry that you know think of it the auto industry as a canary in the coal mine on this uh uh anywhere where the you know where you get the the r the transitional rub of u of inequities in the process that you'd be moving too fast and damaging an industry too much
uh you know you will I think you'll probably end up getting some relief. So you know the the Trump style I think generally is you know to to hit hard, hit fast, hit pure and then uh and then calibrate back the other way. So uh I think there will be a lot of calibration to come if the uh the the auto tariffs are are any example and I would be looking where I an analyst in any sector or industry I would be looking uh you know in my own specialty and trying to figure out exactly where that where that's likely to come. U so I think they
will do that. Yeah. uh but at the same time you know do I think they uh they lose uh the leverage a little bit but generally speaking uh you know that they think they've convinced uh they've convinced markets and they've convinced other countries of the seriousness of their intent to continue to uh uh to move forward in this way.
Certainly uh when it comes to China, the message that Secretary Bessant gave in an interview on Sunday u on one of the Sunday programs was that look, you know, in essence, we can afford to wait China out. We intend to wait out. They're going to have to figure this out and when they do, uh you know, we'll be doing some deals.
Terry, we got to leave things there on the day. Thanks so much for joining us and sticking around through the comments from the White House. We appreciate it. Thank you. Amazon shares are down 2% pre-market with the stock dropping after the White House press secretary said that the e-commerce company's reported decision to display the impact of tariffs on pricing was a hostile act.
Punch bowl reported that Amazon will soon display the added cost of US tariffs on individual products, citing a person familiar with the matter. The site will now display how much of a product's cost comes from tariffs next to the total listed price. Thanks for tuning in to Yahoo Finance. We've got much more coverage leading up to the opening [Music] bell.
White House press secretary Caroline Levit confirmed Tuesday morning that President Trump will soon sign an update on auto tariffs. Here with the details, we've got senior autos reporter Pros Superman. And Pros, what are we expecting here? Hey, Brad. So, you know, long time coming here for relief for the auto sector.
uh as first reported by the Wall Street Journal and confirmed by Howard Lutnik last night and Caroline Levit saying today that's something that's coming up. We don't have the details yet, but the journal claimed that there are some uh little a few features here. So, first and foremost, uh they want to prevent uh tariffs on formade cars stacking up on top of other tariffs as currently imposed.
So, it means that automakers paying Trump's auto tariffs won't actually be charged for other duties like uh steel and aluminum tariffs that are that are currently existing. uh and that and that move would be retroactive to April 2nd when the tariffs began, meaning that automakers would get reimbursed for some of that uh tariff expense.
Uh secondly, on auto parts, which would would be coming on May 3rd, uh they would also be reimbursed up to up to an amount equal to 3.75% of the value of a US-made car for one year, then 2.5% the year after that before being phased out. So again, a little bit of of relief there uh from the auto parts uh portion as well.
A lot going on here. So uh the uh we don't we're still kind of working on the details but the automakers will take it right. So Ford CEO Jim Farley put out a statement claiming that Ford welcomes and appreciates these decisions by President Trump which will help mitigate the impact of tariffs on automakers, suppliers and consumers.
So more to come here later today on some of these auto part tariff or auto exemptions potentially on tariffs. Pros, thanks so much. Thank you. Astroenica is on the move today after posting mixed results for the first quarter, missing revenue estimates but beating on EPS. The pharmaceutical giant reiterating its 2025 guidance and says it's committed to investing in the US as the industry faces tariff threats from President Trump.
Joining me now, we've got Pascal Soryat who is the Astroenica chief executive officer and Yahoo Finance senior health reporter Anelie Kemlani. Pascal, great to have you here with us this morning and thanks for taking the time. You're you're actually calling for no additional US levies on pharmaceuticals. What is the plan and and the analysis per Astroenica on that potential tariff threat? Brad and Madison, thank you for having me. It's pleasure to be with you.
Um we believe that uh the best way forward is to not charge uh tariffs on pharmaceuticals but uh create an environment that attracts investment through uh an attractive corporate tax rate. That's a general comment because as a company we have a very broad manufacturing uh footprint in the US. We have 11 manufacturing sites.
We manufacture small molecules, large molecules. We even have two large recent investments in cell therapy manufacturing. So we are relatively self-sufficient. The great majority of our products sold in the US are manufactured in the US. We actually export from the US and there's a couple of products we still make in Europe and we are moving that manufacturing to the US very rapidly.
So we are not really affected by this in a great to a great extent. But certainly we believe that uh a great environment of you know supporting investment in R&D and uh creating a attractive tax environment would help attract investment. Pascal Angela here, good to see you again. And and you know, I've heard you say, especially on the call this morning, about the sort of lack of long-term impact here, but you've also been pushing a lot for the European regulators to pay attention and for governments to pay attention to this tariff move and its impact um really in
the continent. And so I wonder how does that uh you know really mix with your focus on moving to the US but then also as someone who is European looking at the local sort of domestic picture and why the push there rather than rely on those US exports. Yeah, it's a really great question Jali. I mean I think you've got to start from what are we trying to achieve as an industry.
We are here to uh come up with innovative medicines and in the last few years 5 to 10 years the innovation in our industry has exploded. There's a whole series of technologies that are bringing new medicines and make uh the day when we can cure some cancers not that far away. But to get there, we have to have as many countries contributing to the global R&D effort.
And the problem we have is that a large a large part of our innovation effort in our industry is is actually funded by the US. So our view is that Europe has to allocate more funding uh to innovative pharmaceuticals. um a greater share of their healthcare expenditures should go to innovative pharmaceuticals so that Europe allocate a greater share of their GDP to to this innovation just like they have to allocate a greater share of their GDP to defense as well similar mechanisms we have to have a rebalancing of investments and Europe has to contribute
to this innovation effort uh and you know it can't be only the US funding it fair and on that innovation point. I know that you're also in the obesity space. I heard Arda say earlier that if you get your oral to phase 2, you're going to start thinking about how to build out capacity. Is that an uncertain picture right now when it comes to US versus XUS market or are you looking at just focusing on the US right now when it comes to that? And as a follow-up to that also um does Fizer's removal from that race sort of give you momentum?
Yeah, two great questions. I mean, first of all, the the manufacturing part. We've been investing in manufacturing in the US, in China, and in Europe. Uh, but of course, the US is our number one priority because it's a larger market, lots of lots of unmet needs to to address and also a very strong innovation sector.
Uh, so we will continue to invest in manufacturing, but also in R&D. We have two very large R&D center one near Washington and one in Kendall Square in Boston in in Cambridge and Boston. So we will continue to make make those investments. In particular, we will invest in the US for the manufacturing at scale of our uh anti- of our obesity portfolio of products.
So you know this will remain a great priority for us both from an R&D perspective but also uh from a manufacturing perspective. Pascal you mentioned that pipeline as well here and I believe you talked about this on the call too. How as you're evaluating some of the rolloff of patents over the next few years here.
How quickly do you expect some of those pipeline investments to be accretive to the business given the patent cliff that much of the industry faces over these next few years? It's a great question, Brad, but we don't have a lot of uh patent expireies over the next few years. We have a couple of patent expireies that will affect us, of course, but we have enormous uh momentum in the rest of our portfolio of products.
We have today more than 12 blockbusters. The blockbusters being defined as a product that sell for sells more than a billion dollars a year and they're all growing and we have new indications supporting their future growth. We also have new molecular entities. This year we will have a large number of new clinical readouts, new products, new indications.
So we believe by the end of this year people will be able to see investors will be able to see whether we are on track for 80 billion dollar sales by 2030. um because of the momentum they will see in our topline but also because of the delivery of our pipeline which so far has started very well. We've had five successful phase three redouts so far this year in a matter of three and a half months.
Astroenica CEO Pascal Sora, thank you so much for taking the time here with us today and a big thanks to our own Angelique Klani. Thank you. All your markets action straight ahead. Stay tuned. You're watching Morning Brief. There you're taking a live look at the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange and at the NASDAQ. Is it already that time of the year? The Triple Crown beginning kicking things off. Church Hill Downs here.
All right, for all the fans out there, you've got some funfetti in the air over in Times Square. Taking a look at the major averages as we begin today's trading activity coming off of some of the Q&A taking place at the White House this morning from Treasury Secretary Scott Bessant. Uh the Dow Jones Industrial Average, you're seeing that hold on to some gains, fractionally as they may be out of the gate, up by about onetenth of a percent.
The NASDAQ composite did move a little bit lower during some of those comments. Uh imagine that investors kind of took note of the uh commentary around Amazon. Of course, that's one of the components within the NASDAQ, the Dow, and the S&P 500. Actually, the S&P 500 beginning the day down by about 3/10en 4/10en of a percent.
And then just lastly, let's take a look at the 11 S&P 500 sectors here. As we kick things off, we're seeing more lagards than advancers right now bringing up the caboose. You've got energy that's down by about 8/10 of a percent and it looks like materials is actually leading the pack out of the gate here this morning. That's up by about 4/10en of a percent.
And the affforementioned Amazon, let's just take a quick gander at how that opens up the day. Begins the day lower by about 2%. some fighting words out of the White House this morning about how Amazon is going to be labeling some of the prices with the tariff impacts for consumers to see.
Let's get to Yahoo Finance's Jared Blickery for a look at what is moving. Hey Jared. Well, thank you Brad. Yeah, I was looking uh catching my eye too that Amazon trade definitely among the leaders to the downside this morning. But let's back up and just show the unit year-to- date in the S&P 500 once again because as I was outlining yesterday, the markets have come to a critical point.
This is the S&P, the Dow, and the NASDAQ to a little bit of a lesser extent, but we are right back up to that breakdown level. We had this huge acceleration last week and now we're trying to figure out what the next move is. And not a lot has happened technically in many of these markets since yesterday.
Few exceptions, but let me just uh go down and tell you what I'm seeing here. We got the NASDAQ. It looks down. it looks like is still leading down in early trading. Dow is slightly positive here. That's just barely up about 61 points. This is that year-to- date chart as well. And you can see how similar that is to the S&P 500.
But I want to move on to the bond market. And for there we have the 10-year Tynote yield. Uh that is basically flat right now. Although just earlier, and this is a year-to- date chart, it touched the lowest level that we've seen in about 3 weeks. And dollar that's just jumping a little bit. Not too much movement there.
pretty close to those lows that we've seen. And I want to take a look at the VIX as well because the VIX has been quite interesting. Uh that's not the one I want, but here we go. It is up just a little bit. You can see in this year-to- date chart a tiny inflection to the upside. Doesn't mean that much, but what's catching my eye is how it's just kind of hovering around the 25 level, which is historically slightly elevated.
So, that just shows you the uncertainty that's still in the market. Brad covered the sectors. Consumer discretionary was leading to the downside early, but now it is consumer staples and then healthc care and then energy and then utilities. So the defensive sectors are looking the weakest today, but not seeing a lot of outliers. Materials still leading.
That's XLB to the upside. Then when we take a look at the NASDAQ, let's see what Amazon is doing. It is down 1%. That is the biggest lagard in the MAG 7 trade. Although Microsoft and Tesla now positive. They were negative in the pre-market. So, we'll see where where those fall today by the close. And then in futures land, I was looking at crude oil, which slipped a little bit.
I was talking about the consolidation that we've seen recently. Here's a one-mon chart, and we just barely touched twoe lows. Not drawing that very well in crude oil. Silver's up, gold's down, Bitcoin consolidating around 95,000. Again, just a lot of wait and see right here as we are figuring out that next catalyst. Jared, thanks so much.
Appreciate it. [Music] [Applause] [Music] Now, time for some of today's trending tickers. We are watching GM, Coca-Cola, and UPS. First up, General Motors pulling its 2025 earnings guidance and pausing share buybacks amid tariff uncertainty. This as President Trump is expected to soften the impact of his auto tariffs today.
The Wall Street Journal reporting that the deal will prevent duties on foreign made cars from stacking on top of other tariffs that he has imposed. The automaker is delaying its earnings conference call until Thursday. Here, just one additional contextual note here that we heard from Secretary Bessant this morning, reminding and reiterating that President Trump has had meetings with both domestic and foreign and foreign auto producers and saying that he's committed to bringing back auto production to the US. So trying to give automakers a path
to do that quickly but that creating uncertainty in the near term for some of the guidance and outlook for auto manufacturers right now. And it's interesting when you take a look at the data which is all we have right now for GM because of the delay of that call. Uh the financial results did largely beat expectations but some potentially worrisome signs ahead here specifically regarding GM projecting an adjusted pre-tax profit in a range of 13 to 15.
7 billion for 2025. The midpoint of that would be about on par with last year's. And obviously, you want to see growth. You don't want to see continuation of last year's results. Also, these results do capture that first quarter pull forward behavior from consumers buying some autos in anticipation of the impact of those tariffs.
So, how much of this is a potential lift ahead of a potential downturn from tariff policy? Hopefully, we'll get some clarity about that when that call is scheduled moving forward here. Next up, let's talk about Coca-Cola topping first quarter estimates boosted by price hikes and strong demand. The beverage maker maintaining its 2025 guidance, saying it expects tariff impacts to be manageable.
You got manageable. You've got the shares down about 3/4 of a percent here. What I find fascinating about Coca-Cola here is that we did initially see a pop in the stock price after these earnings results here and now you see a move to the downside here. Interesting to see too that the company called Trump's tariffs manageable.
Obviously, that is the line when it comes to companies being able to talk about their ability to withstand the impact of these tariffs. In in terms of the math, you had net sales down a little bit year-over-year, organic sales growth up just a touch, and earnings per share also up just a touch. Yeah, the company did acknowledge some pressure in key developed markets.
the chairman and CEO James Quincy saying that the power of their global global footprint though allowed them to successfully navigate a complex external environment. And additionally here uh they also did note within that kind of volume sales mix that we're continuing to track uh unit case volume actually grew 2% here. Uh but overall this is going to be a continuing kind of story to watch especially as it relates to where consumers are trading down or trading in and perhaps buying in bulk.
uh in some cases here for Coca-Cola and what that means as well for some of their larger distribution partners also. And finally here, let's talk a little UPS. UPS expecting to cut 20,000 jobs this year in response to lower volumes. The shipping giant not providing an update to its fullear outlook amid economic uncertainty.
This is despite topping first quarter results. Shares of UPS, you're seeing them higher here at least early in trading by about half a percent. We've been continuing to track this one of course closely over the course of this year as well. Given where some of the consumer mindset has continued to navigate over the course of this year to date, they are still down by about 21%.
And critically not providing any updates to its previously issued consolidated fullear outlook given the what else uncertainty. Uh, also interesting to see that earnings were up but sales were down. And UPS talking specifically about leveraging their integrated network and trade expertise moving forward amid that backdrop of uncertainty.
And you can scan the QR code below to track the best and worst performing stocks with Yahoo Finance's trending tickers page. It's time now for today's strategy session. Earnings season in full swing with four Magnificent 7 members reporting this week. All but one of the MAG 7 stocks have fallen below their 200 day moving average.
So, what do the technical indicators spell out for what comes next? Joining us now, Larry Tentterelli. He's the chief technical strategist for the blue chip daily trend report. Larry, I think if we're talking about the MAG 7 this morning, I have to start with you on Amazon because this is a stock that is now dragging down the entire retail sector with it this morning.
To what extent do you think that Amazon is able to pull out something in this earnings print this week that's going to allow them to be a positive bell weather for the Mag 7 despite the current market action that is very much related to Amazon as a retailer not as a tech company. Sure, that's a great question. I don't know that I've got a super clear answer for you.
I think that the key thing is really going to be based on forward guidance. We really don't know what that's going to be. Amazon because they're tied to the consumer. We're we're in unchartered territory because there is no blueprint for this tariff cycle right now. But I think it's going to be a very important tell for the sector as you kind of look across some of the technical tells that are playing out within the tech sector at this juncture.
Of course, two of those larger mag 7 names in Nvidia and Apple were two of the first major companies mega cap tech companies to really initiate some of the pullback this year. What are the technicals telling us now? So, the Mag 7 still is not my favorite place to be. I see much stronger charts. Palunteer, Crowdstrike, Netflix.
The Mag 7, I think it got to be overowned. I think that a lot of foreign investors had parked money in the MAG7. And as the US dollar has sold off, I think they've also sold the MAG7 stocks. So, the Triple Q is still underneath the 200 day moving average, the S&P is. So, I'm still I don't like the MAG7 that much yet, but I am open-minded that if the earnings come through and the stocks turn up, then that could be more positive.
And do you think that there is potential for the opposite for there to be much more downside for the MAG 7 given that you're already a little bit skeptical? I don't know if I'd say much more downside. So what we saw in the S&P 500 two weeks ago, highest weekly volume in 14 years, and it was a major upside reversal week.
So historically, that's how many bare markets have bottomed. So I don't know that I'd say that there's major downside per se in the MAG7, but I think we need to stay open-minded that if they if they're soft on guidance, you could see some downside. Is this still the year for selling May and go away? Is that at play at all from what you're kind of seeing, especially given where investors have either been guided in the early kind of market correction to to buy on the dip versus what they're being guided towards now, which is sell the rally,
right? I think we're in a different market this year. So, I can't say that sell in May. I think historically, if we go back over the past 10 years, sell in May hasn't actually worked too well. I think this is a very high volatility news-driven cycle. I do think last week we had a very bullish week and volatility is starting to come out of the market, but I think it's really very chart specific.
I do think that the S&P and NASDAQ 100 are in a recovery phase. So, I'm looking to buy the pullbacks as opposed to sell the rallies. Interesting. Larry, great to see you. Thanks for joining us in studio this morning. Thank you so much. Absolutely. Coming up everyone, we're taking a closer look at results from Fizer as the drug maker says it's unable to predict how tariffs will affect its business.
Stay tuned. Drug maker Fiser posting mixed results for their first quarter as it announced plans for 1.2 billion in cost cutting efforts. Sales for the quarter came in just shy of expectations. Fiser reaffirming its outlook for the full year but noting it has not factored in any potential impact from terrorists.
Here to discuss what these results mean for the drug maker, we've got Vomal Devon. He is Guggenheim security senior research analyst and managing director. Vom, great to have you on here. So Fizer, cutting costs while continuing to struggle for growth opportunities. Where does that leave you on this name? Yeah, it's been a tough one.
We have a buy rating on it. We do like the name longer term. We think that the expectations are very low and so we do think there's upside over time but it's been a struggle for sure. Last year they delivered very good commercial performance beat numbers pretty handily. Stock didn't really react well and now it's face a lot of pressure more recently with all the concerns around tariffs and the longerterm outlook.
So we do still like it. We think there's value in the pipeline. Uh we think over time they can deliver upside to where current expectations are. But it's not going to happen today. I think today is pretty much like you mentioned a mixed quarter. It's just more costcut driven sort of upside uh and nothing to get people too excited about anything really changing in the near term.
It's still going to take some time. How does that potential tariff headwind kind of widen your forecast uh range as you're looking through what potentially could be incurred by Fizer and and the rest of the industry and how that would radically or materially at least change some of the expectations for their financial performance.
Yeah. Yeah. So it's a it's obviously challenging for everyone right now to sort of predict the future. I think there's two sides where we see the potential risk. One would be on the actual COGS line the expenses paying for the tariffs and then the other thing for a lot of these multinational pharmaceutical companies would be on the tax side uh if there's changes to how they do their how they can utilize transfer pricing and lower some of their taxes based on their manufacturing and intellectual property being outside the
United States. So Fiser you see they have a 15% tax rate. I think it's not unrealistic to think that's going to go up over the next couple years maybe to 17 18%. We see what we'll see what happens in terms of actual policy but that's where we see the two biggest risks. So multinational farmer companies like this see their cogs go up and then if your tax rates below the 21% rate right now there's a pretty good chance that's going to go up in the next couple years as well.
And regarding tariff policy and just uncertainty obviously Fiser maintaining the 2025 outlook here. To what extent do you have faith in its ability to bear fruit on that? Yeah, I think ultimately for all of these companies, it is about innovation and it's about the pipeline and driving that long-term growth even before all the tariff uh you know concerns started.
The the main concern is that a lot of their core products are losing patent protection and other ones are facing other challenges over the next few years and the pipeline needs to deliver. That again is what's core to our thesis. We do think they have some exciting things in the pipeline in the oncology space, some in the obesity metabolism space.
Uh so those products are going to need to deliver. Last year we saw some of that. Uh we're going to see some more in the coming months here with some data releases. Those come through again. We know the sales for the next couple years are not going to show significant growth. Uh that's the fact at this point, but this is a long-term business.
uh you start delivering on the pipeline, people start getting more optimistic on what it's going to look like in 2028, 2029, 30. And that's where I think the stock can start working maybe later this year into next year. Voml, good to have you here with us today. Thanks so much for taking the time. Thank you.
We've got all your market action ahead. Stay tuned. You're watching the morning brief. [Music] [Applause] We're taking a closer look at some trending tickers this morning and we're doing it in 30 seconds each. We're first identifying a team up here between Hims and Hers and Novo Nordisk. Plus, we've got earnings from Hilton and PayPal.
First up, the healthc care team up. Pharmaceutical giants Nova Nordisk collaborating with startup Hims and Hers to provide affordable obesity care to millions of Americans. Starting now, consumers can bundle a Hims and Hers subscription with any dose of Novo's weight loss drug, Wiggoi, for a single price starting at $599 a month.
Yeah, a huge deal for Hims and Hers and for Novo. You can see those shares up nearly 24% and 3% for Novo as well. In earnings news, Hilton topping expectations here. If we can move ahead here, we will see that Hilton's profit growth in the first quarter boosted its adjusted profit outlook, citing strong consumer demand.
Hilton also projecting revenue per available room to be flat to up to 2% compared to 24 2024. That's below the previous estimate of a 2 to 3% rise. Yeah, overall they remain optimistic about some of those growth opportunities. The CEO Chris Netta saying. And finally here, PayPal delivering a mixed report earnings topping estimates while revenue missed.
The company also reaffirmed its fullear guidance citing micro macroeconomic uncertainty. shares of PYPPL. You're seeing them fractionally lower here early in trade, down by about two ten of a percent. And you can scan the QR code to track the best and worst performing stocks of the session at Yahoo Finance's trending tickers page.
Moving on here, Spotify is another big earnings mover today. You can see the shares boopping around after issuing a disappointing second quarter guidance. They were down as much as 8% pre-market. Looks like that action is continuing here. Our senior reporter Alexander Canal has the results. Hey Ally. Hey Maddie. Yeah, it's all about that guidance which we've heard from a lot of companies this earning season and this particular decline in the share price mostly focused on guidance for monthly active users otherwise known as MAUs. The company expects 689 million
MAUs in the second quarter. That's below the 694 million analysts had expected. And these misses clouded pretty strong user growth that we saw in the first quarter. We had premium subs rise 12% year-over-year. is was actually the strongest Q1 subscriber growth since 2020 and the second highest net addition for any quarter in the company's history.
So strong start to the year, but an acknowledgement here from management that it will be bumpy, especially compared to 2024 when we had a lot of acceleration when it came to subscribers. Also an aggressive pace of margin expansion that's all supposed to slow in 2025. Daniel Ek talked about the uncertain macro picture on the earnings call, but he did say that Spotify is well positioned that the underlying data remains healthy.
To that point, Wall Street analysts say that Spotify is really a defensive name, especially given the macro picture, similar to a company like Netflix. It has a lot going for it when it comes to its various tiers. It's catering to the super fan. It has audiobooks, has podcasts, and it's relatively cheap, so it holds well in a recessionary environment.
On the pricing side of things, Daniel E did say that pricing is a part of its strategy, but the company is very careful to enact price increases unless it's delivering value. So, I don't know if we should expect any further price increases in the near term, but it's always a lever that the company has as it gets going.
But despite the decline in shares today, we are still up about 100% over the past year. And Wall Street very bullish on this company. You know, it's in growth mode. It's committed to this turnaround plan. It's finally making money. Um, so really there's this there's this uh commentary on Wall Street that we don't need to worry about this report right now that the long-term uh future of this company is still well intact.
So it sounds like Wall Street is anticipating that despite the Q1 gross margin slowing and the year-over-year decline that we saw that there's that opportunity for at least for them to pull price from consumers or extract more value there. They have those levers that they can pull. This is an uncertain backdrop. They're committing to the superfan experience, committing to the creator economy.
They just said that they paid out $100 million to podcast publishers. That includes those marquee names like Alex Cooper, Joe Rogan. So, they have these other opportunities that they can lean on. And when you talk about the competitive landscape, Spotify is one of the top uh performers out there compared to, you know, your Amazon Music or your Apple Music.
Brad, I know you're an Apple Music. I'm a Spotify girl. Absolutely outing me. But but but people pay for these things, right? It's that it's, you know, recession proof in a lot of ways and again relatively cheap. I didn't know that you could have a a playlist created based on your ideal BPM. AIDJ on Spotify is great. Thank you guys so much. Ally, thank you.
Checking back on shares of Amazon falling after White House press secretary Caroline Hevit Levit told reporters the company's decision to display tariff impacts on pricing is a hostile and political act. The comments follow reporting from Punch Bowl that the e-commerce giant will soon display the added cost of US tariffs on individual products next to the total listed price.
The price increases come as the president imposes high levies on imported goods from China. The move creating political tensions now between the White House and Amazon. Amazon founder Jeff Bezos was one of the tech executives notably attending President Trump's inauguration has since met with him at Mara Lago, but the company today reportedly adding tariff pricing to its website. I am out to Amazon for comment.
The shares down a little over 1%. That does it for Morning Brief. Join me in the next hour for Catalysts.
Made with  byGlasp