================================================================================
Title: 
Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rWyzjiIwfN0&t=603s

Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
Yep. Talk to that camera the whole time. Lights are going to come up, so if you're if you're a little dark when you're walking through, don't worry about it. Lights up, right? Good luck. Thank you, Mike. We're about to rock the world. It's incredible. They know nothing. They just talk. Man, money makes big money.
You're about to watch a show that no one's ever seen before. One where I put my skills to work for you. I am going to be your coach. This show, every show, I'm going to give you some money making ideas. And best of all, I'm going to tell it in a way that you have never ever heard before. [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] Hey, I'm Kramer.
Welcome to a special 20 year anniversary episode of Mad Money. Welcome to CR America. Other people make friends. I'm just trying to make you a little money. My job is not just entertain, but to educate to teach you. So call me at 1800 743 CBC. Tweet me at Jim Kramer. All right. Look, lately we can't go a day without hearing some widespread misperceptions about stock ownership.
I got to tell you, I think it's infuriating. Here we are celebrating the 20th anniversary of Mad Money, dedicated to the proposition that you can potentially make lots of money by picking individual stocks. Yet, I I keep hearing that most Americans don't care about the stock market and its direction means nothing.
I have to tell you, I think that is completely absurd. So, on a day when the Dow gained 300 points, that's climbed 58%, NASDAQ advanced 555%. Thank you for a nice day for our 20th. Let's talk about stock ownership because it's the whole reason anyone watches a darn show and it generally matters not just to the rich but to tens of millions of regular people home gamers and never let any politician tell you otherwise.
In this morning's New York Times, there was this article about people who voted for Trump and how they felt now that the market's well off its highs. I've listened to this guy, Daniel Vent Manager. He said he regretted his decision to vote for Trump because quote, "My 401k keeps dropping. That's bad.
Some people don't want to pretend it's bad because a large portion of this country does not have stocks. Most of MAGA doesn't have stocks. They don't care. End quote. All right. Look, I get where Daniel's coming from, but he's wrong about who owns stock. More than 60% of Americans have some exposure to the market, either directly or indirectly.
70 million people have active 401ks. Millions more have retired with them. 60 million people have IAS. Only 156 million people voted in November. I mean, we're talking half the electorate here. So, here's where I stand. When we started this show 20 years ago, we took an odd stance for anyone in this business. First, we were going to try to augment your paycheck.
Now, I've been doing it for 25 years before I started the show, and it worked every day, including the year of the the crash in 1987 in the docom bust in 2000. But second, I knew that you needed a champion. You were being taken for granted. So many brokerage houses just didn't seem to care.
They didn't think individual investors were worth catering to. For example, my maiden named wife had just had her account handed from a real exact to a machine and a clerk. Why? She wasn't big enough. That's called indignity. She had worked hard selling real estate and had stung that the $100,000 that shaved up over many, many years just wasn't enough to warrant real help from a brokerage firm. I fight for people like her.
The cab driver who stopped me last evening. Hey, money man. Who thanked me for making money for the first time ever. I fight for him. The kid outside Rock Center yesterday wanted a picture with me because I got him interested by teaching him how the stock market worked. I fight for him. The famous actor last week who apologetically asking for a selfie because his dad never misses the show and he's ahead of the pros with his picks.
I fight for him, too. Well, we're some strange country. We have all these amazing companies that do so many terrific things with stocks that can potentially make you fortunes. Yet neither political party wants to take credit for them. Sure, Trump invites him to the White House, but to what avails on their goods.
Maybe that's more pro business than, say, Biden, who shun CEOs and often bragged about how he owned no stocks back when he was a senator, bragging about it. But it amazes me that neither party wants to stand up for you, the investor. The financials create all of these products, the double and triple leverage ETFs, the zero days to Exper with no win securities.
I watched my friend Brian Sullivan interview commerce secretary Lutnik today while in the background. Taiwan Semi was building the largest foreign investment project in American history. That project was started by Taiwan Semi 5 years ago with Apple as its largest customer. The chips and science act under Biden got this plant rolling and Taiwan Timmy's commitment has grown much much larger under President Trump.
Nvidia makes chips there too. Terrific store. But there's a missing thread. These companies are owned by shareholders like the shareholders who voted for Trump and the shareholders who voted for Harris and the shareholders who voted for Biden before that. These companies want to do what's right by you, the shareholder. But they can't tell what's right if they don't have the clarity of the rules of the road.
They don't want to be told to build their factories in Mexico only to be then told that they're being tariffed by doing for doing so a few years later. They don't want to help strengthen relations between US and China by building cell phones in the PRC only to find out that they're aiding and abetting the enemy and now they have to crush their own shareholder owners.
They don't want to be told to create dumbed down versions of their chips for China and then be told that they can't even do that, forcing them to take a $5.5 billion charge for something that was supposed to be okay. That's Nvidia. Listen, shareholders are a constituency. We should be considered. It's not just arrogant rich people who own stocks.
In fact, the mega rich love to come on the air and tell you the stock market is too dangerous. Now look, stocks are ridiculously tax advantaged. More than just rich people want that. In a world where probably no more than 10% of this country can retire on their paycheck savings, stocks represent a different kind of social security.
A one-sided pack where people try to save and the government dismisses them. Oh, and I I don't for one minute believe that all of the CEOs who come on the show are necessarily looking out for you. Some aren't. We don't like them. We have a zest to expose. Now, we don't have subpoena power, but we do have embarrassment power, and we use that for all it's worth.
You know what we do it for? We do it for you. It's the Mad Money Manifesto. The bottom line, we fight for you, and we champion you, and we're grateful for every minute you have us on. We thank you for our 20 years. Without you, we'd be off the air 19 years ago. with you. We do our best to help you, to entertain you, to teach you, and yes, to stick up for you in a country where our leaders and many of our people deny that you even exist. Let's speak to Trey in Texas.
Trey, Jim, congratulations to you and your awesome team, and thank you for giving us retail investors a seat at the table for 20 years. Well, thank you, Trey. And you're terrific to to talk to. I'm glad you called in. How can I help? Well, Jim, I've been modeling for Abberrombie and Fitch for a few years now, and I got to tell you, several of the data points I'm seeing in my model suggest ANF may be seriously undervalued here.
What are your thoughts? You know what? I've got to see what they look like in a tariff world, Trey, because I don't know exactly how much of their stuff is going to have to go up in price. The stock is reflecting a lot of that, but you're, you know, you're right. It's six times earnings, but you and I both know six times earnings means usually that the earnings estimates are too high. But it's 65 bucks. 3.
3 billion dollar company. I think you can pick up a little. But then wait, let's go to Dave in Illinois. Dave. Dr. Kramer, my good mad friend. Now celebrating 20 years of Mad Money with Jim Kramer. How are you feeling today, Mr. Energizer Bunny? Dave, I got to tell you, uh, I'm nervous. I'm tingling. I got a lot of people here.
I they're they're count on me and I'm feeling darn darn worried that I'm letting them down. I hear you. Ringing the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange with Regina, Heather, Cliff, and Emma to name a few. What a thrill. Well, you know, it was the real deal. And we've been tigling about it all day and I I'm so grateful for the network and I'm grateful for people like you, Dave, who just made our show great.
How can I help you today? Let's get to work. up rough roughly roughly 45% so far on the year. This 20 billion market cap company offers a range of products and services to their identities. They recorded earnings beats in each of the last three quarters. 44 analysts cover this stock. 22 are buy or strong by recommendations. As the newest member of the S&P 400 midcaps, I'm asking you today about Octa.
I think Octa is terrific. It's one of the greatest companies. I'll tell you, anybody who works there has a great time and they have done remarkable things and Tom McKinnon is terrific and so is cyber security anti-stocks. This one is a winner. I'm going to give you a two for Dave because you're so terrific.
Crowd Strike and Palo Alto Networks, they're all terrific. And thank you for the calls. Thank you for all the callers all these years. Thank you so much. All right, our Mad Money Manifesto has been the same for 20 years. We champion you, we fight for you, and we stick up for you.
And stick around at 7:00 tonight at the end of the show. It's going to be a walk down memory lane, a documentary about Mad Money on Mad Money. Tonight, from oil rigs to factories, we spent the past two decades bringing Crane America to company sites across the country. Tonight, I'm checking in with one of those hosts, New Core, after his recent report.
Then, what stocks have stood the test of time since Mad Money first aired? I'm revealing the top 10 winners and later Honeywell reported top and bottom line beat this morning. I've got the club holdings top brass to learn more. So stay with [Applause] Kramer. Don't miss a second of mad money. Follow Jim Kramer on X. Have a question? Tweet Kramer #madmentions.
Send Jim an email to madmoney@cnbc.com or give us a call at 1800743CNBC. Miss something? Head to madmoney.cnbc.com. [Music] Let me nail this one. All right. He's enjoying this. Well, let's just put it way. That's Jim. It's all over [Music] the Bruce is a vegetarian. I talk about some other place. Let's get him. So, we'll go over the uh skid pad.
I'll do some drifting. Okay. And then we'll do a burnout. You sure you don't want to drive? No, no, no. You got You're in control. I really appreciate that. Say it while I'm while I'm going up. Yeah, exactly. So, it's one shot. Okay. Ready? [Music] [Applause] Hey, I'm Crramer. Hey, I'm Cramer. Hey, I'm Kramer. Welcome to Mad Money.
Welcome to Bad Money. Welcome to Mad Money. Welcome to Cray America. Welcome to Cra America. Hello from the city of brotherly love, 140 mi off the coast of Louisiana. Welcome to Dream Force Conference in San Francisco. I'm on a boat. Welcome to Dearborn, Michigan. We're on the Mississippi River in front of New Core Steel, Louisiana.
Mad Money is in the heart of steel country. Mad money is boots on the ground in the bad lands. This is what we'll do. Find good ideas to invest in America. Who says we don't make anything anymore? [Music] That was a look at all the places this show has visited on the road over the last 20 years.
We've got new Mad Money from the Michigan car factories, offshore oil rigs, and even a direct production facility in Louisiana that belong to our next guest, Newore. In fact, steelmaker Newor has joined Mad Money almost every quarter for our last 20 years. Last, it's because I love the company so much, I'll just play them with a hand open.
Last night, we got a solid quarter from Newore. Even better, management gave us some positive commentary about how they see demand shaping up in the months ahead. That doesn't jive with the conventional wisdom that claims we're headed for a nasty recession. You know, I don't believe that either, but don't take it from me.
Let's check in with Leon Talion. He's the chairman, president, CEO of Neworn. Mr. Pal, welcome back to May Buddy. Hey Jim, thanks for having me and um congratulations to you and your entire team. 20 years is an incredible milestone and Newore is glad to be a part of that over the last two decades. Well, Leon, we are thrilled to have you and I I am also thrilled that you uh I hope you understand we recognize you as much as you recognize us because you're such a great American company.
Uh last I got to tell you, I was thrilled about your numbers. To me, it says trough, trough, trough. I see everything going your way after prolong, you know, kind of a pretty long downturn. Am I too optimistic? No. Look at we share in that enthusiasm and optimism as you look at the quarter overquarter improvements as we think about the projections.
Our backlogs are up 30%. Um we continue to see strong order entry and again the end drivers for new core construction data centers energy um OCTG and the markets that are yet still emerging uh all are pointing for very strong signs as we head into the second quarter and the rest of the year. You know it also.
So Jim, one of those data points too I'll just share with you as we think about Newor is the largest structural fabricator in the United States. When you think about the backlog at our New York Yumato facility today in our Berkeley beam mill, it is the largest backlog in the history of our company like ever.
And so as you think about that as a bellweather for the rest of the industry, that volume and those tons that sit in that backlog are through fabricators that don't pre-order. They don't buy ahead. They book only on the business that's contracted today. So that gives you a really good indication of how strong like to the tune of hundreds of thousands of tons at that sector of the economy alone.
So again like you I'm optimistic about our future but clearly for the rest of the year we see uh improving signs coming through the economy. I also want to make another point. I think that if we didn't have a level playing field, if we had a playing field like you and I have seen periodically, we would not be talking about the great strength of a great American company.
We'd be talking about how you've been shut out of a lot of situations because other countries wanted those projects. Absolutely, Jim. Look, the the the last four years, we've seen our trading partners and countries take full advantage of the 232 or the TRQs that were put in place. It was long overdue for these to be uh refurbished, revamped, and revised.
And that's exactly what we're seeing today in the Trump administration. And again, but now with some nuance, not only pivoting where he needed to pivot, but also adding things like derivative products that um again take a much more holistic view and helping the entire vibrancy of the steel industry and ensuring that we have a strong um resilient industry for national defense.
You know, I heard someone on air say, "You know what, Jim, you you support this industry. It actually creates very few jobs and it's not very big." I've been schooled by you and your predecessors that when you look at something like what's going on in West Virginia. When you put up a steel mill, it doesn't end there. It is actually the force multiplier that our country is desperate for.
Actually, Jim, let me tell you about the last 5 years alone. We've invested 20 billion dollars to grow this company. In that same period of time, we've created 9,000 direct jobs and over 40,000 direct jobs. What do you think that does for the communities where we live and work? What do you think that's going to do in helping partner and transform counties like Mason County, West Virginia or Lexington, North Carolina, Kingman, Arizona, and all the investments that New Cor is involved in across the entire US. So, we are long-term partners in the
communities where we live and work. And that investment, um, man, we're all in. And that's going to be one of the strongest, safest, most profitable mills that, uh, New Cor's ever undertaken in West Virginia. So, I couldn't be more optimistic. New Coror's best days are still in front of us.
And I I also want to point out that you can help us with pricing. It's not like you've jacked up pricing because of the tariffs. Pricing is pricing can go much higher than it is right now. Oh, absolutely. Look, we're in a commodity business. It is the bottom line, man. What what supply and demand is going to dictate.
And so, yeah, you're absolutely right. The highs of of 2021 and two, man, we are way way below that. So while there's strength in the economy, there's a lot of room left. And again, you've not seen the full earnings power and potential come through new core yet. And I think also it's important, we've seen these projects uh get pushed by the government, big big subsidies, they make everything right.
People talk about how they streamline everything. You actually pick communities that need you. You do it yourself. What you've done basically is say, you know what, we don't need your help. We have a level playing field. We'll put up factories all over the country. Isn't that what's happening in all these different little towns that you're in? Oh, absolutely.
And again, we're in 40 states across this incredible nation of ours. We have incredible long-term relationships. And again, we live and work in those communities. So, we're going to school, church, communities, movie theaters, and so those investments again like those in Mason County and other parts of the US where we're invested, um, it's a long-term relationship.
And New Cor is a great community steward, environmental stu steward, sustainability, but again, we're giving back as our people are invested there, buying homes there. And again, that tax base and community and you think about a $4 billion sheet mill in Mason County that is going to transform that industry in that area. Well, look, I've got to tell you, it's a delight to have you on our 20th.
It's pure joy. Ever since I didn't know I didn't know you about your company till 1985, but holy cow, what a what a just a gem it is. That's Leon Talian. He's the chairman, president, CEO of Newor. This stock is at the right price. Believe me, Leon, thank you for coming on the show in this special day. Thanks so much, Jim. Congrats again.
Mad Money's back after the break. Coming up, the Bulls have been running wild ever since Mad Money came on the air. But which stocks have performed better than the rest? Kramer is counting down the top 10 names over the last 20 years next. Last night, we started going through the 20 best performing stocks since man first aired way back in March of 2005.
Cuz these winners really represent the core thesis of the show that you can make a killing by picking the right stocks, doing the homework, and sticking with the great ones. We already covered number 22, 23, all the way down to 11. And for this 20th anniversary show, I want to give you the top 10. To start, we've got a trio of healthcare names.
Well, actually begin with the 11th best performer because it fell one spot today behind Radnet, which we discussed last night, and that's Replen RGN. It's a company that makes high value bioprocessing products for life sciences and biioharma customers. This one's up 7,800% since we first went on air. Replen is basically an arms dealer to the pharma and biotech space making critical reagents using all sorts of innovative new treatments like monocodal antibodies.
This is a stock that rocketed higher during the pandemic and it's now been more than cut in half from its highs in late 2021. Even here is pretty expensive though, selling for about 80 times this year's earnings estimates. So I'm not quite ready to stick my neck out on this one. Even if I generally like the arms dealers, the life sciences industries, rearrange Replen's ticker just a bit and you'll get the ninth best stock of the mad money era, Regeneron Pharma.
That's up more than 9400%. Now, this one's special to me because Regeneron's co-founder and CEO, Dr. Len Schifer, he was one of the first guests who ever came on the show back in April 12th, 2005. The stock was trading at less than five bucks a share. Now, it's at $568. all aboard and that's after 6.87% beating today.
Regener is arguably the most innovative bioarma companies I've seen in the last two decades. But the stocks come in significantly over the past 8 months or so falling more than 50% from its highs. Wall Street is trying to gain the impact of Regeneron's first big patent cliff as they lost protection for their EIA. That's a blockbuster treatment for wet age related macular degeneration.
In fact, when we're general reporting this morning, numbers came up a little short because of an IE miss, which is why the stock got clobbered today. Eighth best performer of the mad money era is Intuitive Surgical, ISRG, the creator of the minimally invasive Da Vinci robotic surgical system. This is another name that we found early on.
I first interviewed someone from the company back in July of 2005 when the stock was trading at a split adjusted price of $5 and change. Since then, we've watched this intuitive robotic surgical system has spread across the globe, constantly improving along the way and adding more types of procedures that it could do.
The company's now 184 billion dollar behemoth and this stock has given you more than 10,000% gain since the show got started. I think it's as relevant as ever. Cup just reported an excellent set of numbers uh last Tuesday. I'm proud to be a huge supporter of this. in seventh place with a more than 10,300% gain is a fun one.
Monster Beverage, the energy drink company that was originally known as Hansen Natural before its big rebrand in 2012. Even though the stocks lost some juice in recent years, the long-term gains here have been staggering, and I pounded the table on this one constantly in the early years. Next, we're entering cream of the crop territory.
In sixth place, we find a magnificent seven name, Amazon, up more than 10,700% gain in the mad money era. When this show began, Amazon was a lowly survivor of the dotcom bust, growing its e-commerce business nicely, but still barely profitable. Since then, though, it's grown into a colossus with a sprawling e-commerce business and a bountiful cloud infrastructure division.
Now, as a mega cap tech giant, Amazon has all sorts of exciting new growth opportunities from a still underappreciated advertising business to the prime membership program that's brought the company into the streaming media space. Much, much more. Amazon reports on Thursday night. While I'm sure there'll be a lot of talk about tariffs, of course, uh, and the state of the consumer, this is one of the few retailers with enough bargaining power to truly mitigate these new import duties, and I still like it for the long
haul. Fifth place, OB One, Texas Pacific Land Corporation, up nearly 13,000% since we first went on air. It's a fun story. uh with its origins dating back to the 1800s when a planned railroad line went bankrupt and the only remaining asset for creditors to take was some land in western Texas.
Turns out it was very valuable land sitting on vast reserves of oil and gas. These days, Texas Pacific simply leases its land holdings to oil and gas related companies or pipeline operators. It's a great business, but uh it's not necessarily one that I want to recommend with West Texas crude sinking to $60 a barrel today. Don't buy. Don't buy. Don't buy.
Fourth place, Apple up more than 14,500% since we went on air. The great thing about Apple is these guys were totally getable. Come on. This was the most obvious story in America for years and years. It's much harder to own here because it's under fire from the White House for sourcing most of its merchandise from China for the cell phones.
But it's still a terrific illustration of the fact that you don't need to be a genius to pick winners in this business. Third best performer over the last 20 years, Booking Holdings. Yes, the online travel agency, formerly known as Price Leline, with a stock that's up a staggering 22,000%. These guys figured out how to dominate the increasingly online travel space and made some very smart acquisitions over the years.
Long-term, I'm still a believer, although we have to take a hard look after it reported just this very evening. Second place, okay, a name you know very well from the show and that's Nvidia. Do you know that Nvidia is up more than 50,000% since the show began? Nvidia. It piqu my interest over 15 years ago when it was originally just a maker of graphics cards for video games.
Since then, we've had the privilege of watching Nvidia blossom into the king of artificial intelligence and accelerated computing. You know, I named my late dog Nvidia because I wanted you all to know about it. Many people have. if I say you bet against Nvidia at your own peril. Last, but certainly not least, is Netflix, the best performing major stock since the show first went on the air.
This had a staggering 82,000% gain. You'd be rich by any stretch of the imagination, no matter almost how little you put in. When we started the show, Netflix invented the entire streaming video category. It's back in 2005. They were still doing DVD rental by mail. And this was another one that I think was incredibly obvious.
Netflix has essentially won versus traditional media at this point, but they're not standing pat. Not at all. Still improving the service as much as possible, which is why I bet this one can continue to climb over the long hall. Bottom line, when you look at the 10 best performing stocks of the last 20 odd years, so many of these were getable if you simply believed in your ability to pick stocks and stuck with them for the long haul. Pleasure. Let's take questions.
Let's go to Bill in Massachusetts. Bill Jimbo, congratulations. Happy anniversary. I I feel like I grew up with Jim Kramer watching. You probably did grow up with me. I think you're in my you were in my elementary school class. What's going on? Started out on the weekends and then went to fulltime in the 2000s.
It's been great. I've had a great time with you. I got to tell you. Ah, you're a good man. How can I help you today? Listen, I I I you said before to pick up a little car, but it's up 20%. I'm very happy with it. It's still down 80 $80 from its high. Do you think I could pick up a little more or should I wait? I like it here.
I like it here for the long term. Why? Because I think the Mediterranean is a is a kind of food that can be like Chipotle. It can be the previous, you know, just the way Chipotle had a big run. I think Cabba can, too. All right, listen up. An investment over 20 years can lead to some pretty staggering stock gains.
You can get a piece of the winners in the future as long as you believe in your stock picks and you stick with us. But for me money and including my post earnings exclusive with club name Honeywell. Then as I ref back on the show's 20-year tenure, I'm giving you some insights into the thesis that started it all.
And it's a little surprising. Of course, all your calls rapid fire tonight's edition of the lightning round. So stay with Kramer. [Music] Look at the stock of Honeywell Go. This morning, the iconic industrial conglomerate reported a magnificent quarter and even raised its fullear earnings forecast. Welcome news because we own this one for the travel trust.
Best of all, management detailed all the progress they're making on their plan to break the company into three pieces. So, let's take a close look with Viml Kapoor. He's the chairman CEO of Honeywell International to learn more. Mr. Kapor, welcome back to Mad Money. Hey Jim, uh first of all congratulations on uh 20th years of your uh great show.
So uh really proud of what you have accomplished. Not many people have reached here. So I really want to start with that. A Vivville, you're very glad and I want to return turn the compliment. This was an amazing quarter. High level, great set of numbers, double expectations, better than expected margins.
Uh what are the main drivers of this upside at a time when people tell us to be worried about the industrials? Yep. So I would say a lot of things are working for us well. Uh starting with our aerospace business continues to perform quite well. Uh we again grew high single digit for many quarters in a row.
Uh that's driven by more and more supply chain recovery. Uh another headline for the quarter was uh our building automation did business also grew high single digit. So as we are working on our strategy to repurpose our portfolio to pivot more and more towards high growth verticals I think that's really showing up in the building automation results.
So both the businesses grow high single digit other businesses per performed on expectations our energy and industrial automation business. So overall we're very pleased with the 4% growth we delivered in uh Q1 and then we maintained our guide for the year uh which was originally 1 to 4% organic growth for the full year and uh we feel confident to deliver that.
So how do you feel about the uh the breakup plans now because uh now you've got a every single one of these divisions are division that I would like to own. Yep. So I would say the the plans to spin into three companies uh Jim are progressing for plans. We expect to complete the spin of chemicals business uh by end of this year, earliest later early next year.
So that's progressing quite well. We do expect to provide a specific date during our Q2 earnings call because we're much more closer to the event. And the aerospace pin is also progressing uh on plan for second half of uh 2026. It's early days. We'll refine the time to make the date more finer in uh you know next few months. uh at the same time I'm working on uh what we will call new Honeywell because we are going to spin aerospace and going to spin chemicals business uh the equity story of that I really feel excited about what's coming ahead for Honeywell
a powerful automation play pure play automation focused on three verticals and very strong business model of building install base and mining install base so exciting times ahead for Honeywell well why don't you talk about your role coming up because I think it's going to be a terrific one and one that I think I probably want to be involved in.
Yep, absolutely. And I think you'll be uh everybody is going to be pleased how Honeywell is going to shape up post the spin. I think the aerospace story is well known. Uh but automation story is going to be equally compelling because automation is all pervasive in our life and Honeywell provides automation in buildings in infrastructure in process industry in industrial sector and as data and AI is growing more and more software and services are going to become more relevant in uh in that in that segment. So that makes me believe
that we are going to be very compelling proposition for our share owners as a standalone automation company. And I have to tell you, your your confidence in your business, which is totally justified, was unshakable when it in the in the face of tariffs. I think you pretty much said, "Listen, we're going to mitigate it.
It's not as big a concern as the analysts think." Yep. And Jim, that's on the strength of uh what we call local for local. We basically make product where we sell. So in United States, most of our manufacturing, what we sell in US is made in US and so on. So the tariffs have an impact of about half a billion dollar in our P&L for 2025.
But think about that in a $440 billion company on a on a percentage basis. It's a not a significant impact and that's because of our local for local strategy. And we are very confident to mitigate that with a combination of some pricing actions and some productivity actions. So we protect our earnings. We also want to protect our demand and uh we're going to execute on that plan.
Well, look, congratulations. Just terrific work and uh wow. I mean, I just thought it was just one of the best quarters I've seen this year. Congratulations to Biml Capor. He's the chairman CEO of Honeywell. Thanks for coming on the show and a big night for us, too. Thank you, Jim. Congratulations again. Dy's back after the break.
Coming up, Kramer takes your calls and the sky's the limit. It's a fast fire lightning round next. [Music] It is time. It's time. The light round said bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye throw up my step but you play this out and then the lightning round is over. Are you ready? D the light round over. Jacob in Alaska.
Jacob Booya Jim, longtime fan, proud investment club member and grateful beneficiary of your transparency and education. And thank you very much for calling in. How can I help? Absolutely. Uh first off, just wanted to thank you for two decades of relentless energy, honesty, and advocacy for the everyday investor.
You've helped shape how I invest, how I live, and how I teach others to build stable financial futures. I'm honored to learn from you, to speak with you, and to carry your mission forward in my own way. Now, down to business. I wanted to ask the follow-up question on my hometown carrier, Alaska Airlines. Well, look, first of all run, so don't take this the wrong way, but the airlines are wrong to own right here because people think we're going into a travel recession.
I think you'd still go lower. Let's go to Joe in New Jersey. Joe, hello, Mr. Kramer. Congratulations on your 20 years of mad money. And over the years, I've learned and earned and kept a diversified portfolio. and very importantly held on to Costco and Apple for many years with Well played. Well played, Joe.
How can I help you now? So much for that. And uh with tariff uncertainty, is Kimberly Clark a buy? All right, yield 3.8. I think you go down to 4.5% because right now that's the operative level. They did not make the quarter. I was a little bummed out. Let's wait till it goes lower. Let's go to Kate in Georgia. Kate Jim, congratulations on 20 years.
That's awesome. Thank you. I'm so grateful to be a small part of the journey and I've been in the investing club from the beginning. Thank you. And I've gained I've gained so much insight and I've learned so much. I am so grateful. So this morning I took profits in Crowd Strike and I was just wondering how do you feel about Crowd Strike for the long term? Okay.
I think for the long term it's terrific. We had to take some profits out of it too cuz it just got too big. But I think George Curts is delivering an amazing product and I think he's got a lot to say. He's given a speech tonight. I think that Crowd Strike is terrific. Let's take another. Let's go to Ross in Alabama.
Ross Jim, happy Tuesday. Ah, thank you Ross. Right back at you. What's going on? Hey man, calling uh some questions about your thoughts on a stock I've been watching. It's about 30% off its highs from a few months ago. That's uh DDF dealer. Now, I mean, and we're in a world now where you're really going to make money in Amazon, in TJX, okay? You'll make money in uh Walmart and you're going to be struggling to make money in any other retailer other than Costco.
I don't think Dillards is a place to be. Let's go to another Let's go to Tyler in Illinois. Tyler, booyah. Jim, love the show. What do we think about buying next tracker NXT? Okay, I do believe look, it had a good quarter. I did think that the that the president did not really care for win, but this kind he doesn't mind this. This is technology all made in America, so I think you're okay. Not great, not bad.
And that, ladies and gentlemen, of the lightning round. The lightning round is sponsored by Charles Schwab. Coming up, Kramer's taking a walk down memory lane to share MadMoney's origin story and his message to all the investors out there planning for the long haul. [Music] Next, when I come up with Mad Money more than 20 years ago, my idea had its genesis in the ponies.
That's right, horse racing. I always like the races, just like my mother. We go together. We bet on every race. We bet on some favorites, but mostly long shots. We lost a lot of money together. In college, I went to Suffach Downs, broken down track, any beautiful day during the season, and continued my losing ways. I gave away my work studying money in vain attempt to augment it.
Then one day, the sports editor of the Harvard Crimson, a man who knew how to handicap, taught by the best, Andy Byer, the amazing racing runner, took me to the track because he'd heard I couldn't resist and was taking a beating. He said if I was going to gamble, I had to gamble wisely. He told me to bet only when I had done a huge amount of homework on a horse and figured out whether the odds looked misplaced against the field.
Betting on the ponies wasn't meant to be a lark. You had to have both discipline and conviction. You had to have to you had to study the past performances, visit out of the way racetracks, Delaware Downs, Liberty Bell Park, and find the anomaly. Bet on that one, that one only, and then leave. Basically, he was telling me to look for the horse racing equivalent of a stock misvaluation.
And that's exactly what I did. Discipline with conviction. And suddenly, I won and I won and I won. Real money, enough to go places, do things, dress better. I kept it up and I went to Florida and into California as a reporter. Always looking for the out of the way tracks. Always some isolated instance.
A maiden claimer at Golden Gate, fourth at Sanonita. Didn't matter. I studied and studied to find that one horse, the unpolished gym. Now, when I became a professional investor, I had to come up with multiple wins constantly to just by my paycheck. But I never forgot what it felt like when I was a struggling, well, I guess nent reporter trying to make a buck at the track.
What does this have to do with me money? Simple same principle. I know the great will always say you should go with index funds. I get that. But there are still millions of people who want to invest in individual stocks. They just don't necessarily know how to do it wisely. I figured if I could show people what I learned first at Goldman Sachs and then at my hedge fund.
If I could teach them the way I was taught at the track, they could at last have a fighting chance, discipline, conviction, no larks, no tips. I refined these ideas first on my radio show, Real Money, and then on this show, adding some entertainment to make the teaching go down more easily. A wild opening, a couple of stocks, skits, and then interviews once the CEOs finally decide to come on.
always thinking like I was with my mom. Just out there gambling, and let's have them invest, increase the odds of success, stay interested in their own money and win. Here we are 20 years later, and I'm more convinced than ever that it's my job to help teach those who want to do it themselves. So far, the students seem pretty darn satisfied.
I guess I'll just have to keep going because I'm not going to stop until the network sends in guys with butterfly nets to yank me off the air. If you've ever dabbled in the stock market, chances are you know who Jim Kramer is. One of the greatest, most spectacular performers on television. We turn now to a Wall Street veteran, a financial heavy hitter, and he's the man hundreds of thousands of hopeful investors turn to every day.
makes his living throwing chairs, hitting buzzers, and screaming at the top of his lungs. The mad profit of profit. Jim Kramer. Jim Kramer. Please welcome Jim Kramer. Mad Money's Jim Kramer. My first question is, we never discussed this. What's wrong with you? Booyah. Booyah. Booyah. Ski daddy. Ski daddy. We have no idea what that means.
Stock guru, mad money, bestselling author, and fantasy football fanatic. Market's crazy, so you got to have a mad man. He's going to stay focused. [Applause] We were talking about making money. Jim Kramer is here tonight. This is the great Jim Kramer from Mad Money on CNBC. A really terrific show. Mad Money's Jim Kramer. Jim Kramer.
I think this thing could even go as high as a don't buy. Don't buy. Jim Kramer hosts Mad Money on this network. What does CNBC? Hello fellow Facebookers. I'm here to do one thing. get you more friends. Stark Industries. Let me show you the new Stark Industries business plan. I'm grounded and spend all day listening to my dad yell at Mad Money with Jim Kramer. Are you okay? Oh, yeah.
It's nothing. I was a guest on Mad Money last night. What's happening? Jim Kramer. Okay. Jim Kramer had this to say about the economy. He's a prophet. Listen. And he's nuts. They're nuts. They know nothing. You said it was going to be the end of the world. Nobody knows anything. They know nothing. They know nothing.
In retrospect, don't you think you were too calm? Whatever money you may need for the next 5 years, please take it out of the stock market right now. That was a call that should have wrecked my career and it would have if the market gone up, but I stuck my neck out and did it and saved a lot of people money that he was right at that point.
We were at the beginning of this great panic. I'm stupid. Don't say that. You know, it's very hard. They're stupid. Is it? Yes. I have a gift to turn people on to this stuff to get them involved. And I and I I love doing it. I love to teach and educate this stuff. This stuff is for me. This stuff is really for me. It is the right thing.
I cannot believe how lucky I am at this age to have come across an unbelievable thing, which is a show that I run and I love. [Music] The only reason that we can do this show is thanks to a legion of amazing people through the years. Some you see around me who have deep mad money roots and true friends of the show and some you see behind me back in the control room.
We like to say there's always a bull market somewhere. And we promise to try to find it just for you right here on Mad Money. I'm Jim Kramer. See you tomorrow. A special MadMoney documentary starts now. All opinions expressed by Jim Kramer on this podcast are solely Kramer's opinions and do not reflect the opinions of CNBC, NBC Universal, or their parent company or affiliates and may have been previously disseminated by Kramer on television, radio, internet, or another medium. You should not treat any opinion
expressed by Jim Kramer as a specific inducement to make a particular investment or follow a particular strategy, but only as an expression of his opinion. Kramer's opinions are based upon information he considers reliable, but neither CNBC nor its affiliates and or subsidiaries warrant its completeness or accuracy, and it should not be relied upon as such.
To view the full MadMoney disclaimer, please visit cnbc.com/madmoney disclaimer.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
Title: 
Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8HFZtGJ8U6M&t=39s

Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
No transcript is available for this video... 😢
Are you looking to transcribe your own video? If so, you can use the Glasp Audio Transcriber to easily transcribe and summarize your audio and video files.
Get transcription and .srt file
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
Title: 
Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IfwJ1mr0s44&t=11s

Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English (auto-generated)
God bless the USA. From the lakes of Minnesota to the hills of Tennessee, across the plains of Texas, from sea to shining sea, from Detroit down to Houston and New York to LA, where there's pride in every American heart and it's time we stand and say, that I'm proud to be an America. And I'm proud to be an Americans wearing
this I know I'm free and I won't forget the men who died who gave that right to me and I gladly stand up next to you and defend her still today. God bless you. Wow. Hello. Hello, Michigan. USA. Oh, thank you very much. Hello, Michigan. Hello. We love you, Michigan. We love
you. We just had the biggest victory in Michigan. They said, "Sir, it's going to be hard." Well, we won it twice. We won it twice. We actually won it three times. you want to really know. But I'm thrilled to be back in this beautiful state. I love the state. Got a lot of auto jobs coming. Watch what's happening.
The companies are coming in by the by the tens. You got to see what's happening. They all want to come back to Michigan and build cars again. You know why? Because of our tax and tariff policy. They're coming from all over the world. They're coming up and they're opening up plants and they're talking to us all day and all night.
They want to get here and they're coming in at levels you've never seen before. And I want to thank the auto workers for your support. That was great. But I'm thrilled to be back in this beautiful state with thousands of proud, hardworking American patriots. And we're here tonight in the heartland of our nation to celebrate the most successful first 100 days of any administration in the history of our country.
And that's according to many many people. This is the best they say 100 day start of any president in history. And everyone is saying it. We're just we've just gotten started. You haven't even seen anything yet. It's all just kicking in. And week by week, we're ending illegal immigration. We're taking back our jobs and protecting our great American auto workers and all of our workers.
Frankly, we're protecting all of our workers. We're restoring the rule of law, which was sort of out the window with this crazy guy we had. How the hell did that guy ever become president? Could somebody explain to me? How the hell did that happen? There's my friend Blacks for Trump. I like that guy. He's follows me.
He follows me. We love you. Your whole group has been so supportive over the years. I want to thank you. I want to Everyone thinks I pay you a fortune. I don't know. I don't even know who the hell he is. I just like him. True. Thank you very much. Thank all of the fellas. Thank them all. But we're ending the inflation nightmare, the worst that we've had probably in the history of our country.
Getting woke lunacy and transgender insanity the hell out of our government. We're stopping the indoctrination of our children, slashing billions and billions of dollars of waste, fraud, and abuse. And above all, we're saving the American dream. We're making America great again. And it's happening fast, too.
What the world has witnessed in the past 14 weeks is a revolution of common sense. That's all it is really. We're conservative. You're conservative. You're liberal. Whatever the hell you know what it's all about. It's about common sense when you think about it. We're for common sense. We like strong borders. We like good education. We like low interest rates.
We like being able to buy a beautiful car. and now deduct the interest on the loan. That's never happened before. We want a strong military. We want low taxes. You know, the Democrats, they campaign on we will raise your taxes. It's the first time. You know, I haven't been doing this that long. Actually, compared to a lot of people, they've been doing it for a long time.
They say, "You became president. I can't get out of Congress." And some of them can't even get into Congress. But, you know, I haven't been doing it that long, but all my life I've been watching and I've never heard people campaigning that they're going to raise taxes. It's always been, "We will reduce your taxes, Democrat, Republican.
" Now, they go, "We're going to raise your taxes." If our bill doesn't pass, the Republicans, we have a 100% just about Republican support, but it would be nice if we had just a couple of Democrats just to make sure because, you know, every once in a while you have a grandstander Republican. We have some grandstanders, but every once in a while, not many, not many, but remember who those grandstanders were and vote them the hell out of office.
Okay? Will you do that? vote them out of office. You know, they do it morally, they're morally bound. You know what the answer is? If you if you don't get it, you're going to have the highest tax increase in history instead of the greatest tax cut in history. If the Democrats prevail on this bill, you get a 58% tax increase.
Would you like that? These are the Democrats. But I've never seen all the years they they campaigned we will raise your taxes. I say what a this place has gone this country has gone crazy. And today they did it again. Some guy that I'd never heard of. John James. Is he a congressman? This guy he said he said ladies and gentlemen I am going to start the impeachment of Donald Trump.
What the hell did I do? Here we go again. They want to impeach me. This lunatic, this lunatic, he was up. Actually, I had the television way down and I said to our great first lady, "Listen, did I just hear I was being impeached again? We're getting good at this, though." No, they've gone totally crazy, these people.
And you know what? They've totally lost their confidence, too. They can't even tell a lunatic like this dumb guy that said it. And then you have the other one that's always with the cane. He's always impeaching and he raises his cane. He always impeaches. But they have no control over those people. They have no control.
And the reason is they've lost their confidence. They have no confidence anymore as a party. They have no candidates. And you know, when they say that Bernie Bernie's probably the best they have, by the way, he's about seven years older than me, more eight years older. One thing I got to give him credit.
He's a lunatic, but he's still pretty sharp. And he's going around with AOCC plus3. You know the plus three follow. They hang on for little bits. They hang on for nuggets and they get crowds. They say, "Oh, the crowd was our crowds are so much bigger than their crowds. Their crowds are small." If I ever had a crowd like their biggest crowd, they'd say, "It's over for Trump.
He's lost the magic." But this is great. And all the people outside, we love you. We put screens up. We're taking back our country from a sick political class that got rich selling America out and bleeding America dry. We don't let that happen anymore. And we had four great years. We had the greatest economy in the history of our country.
The stock market went up 88%. We did great. And we're going to do better now because now we're really we learned a little bit after years of leaders who sent your money to defend the borders of distant foreign nations. That's what we did. We fight for other nations but not for ourself. You finally have a president who is defending our borders and our nation.
Dr. Dr. After decades of politicians who destroyed Detroit to build up Beijing, you finally have a champion for workers in the White House. And instead of putting China first, I'm putting Michigan first. And I'm putting America first. After a lifetime of unelected bureaucrats stealing your paychecks, attacking your values, and trampling your freedoms, we are stopping their gravy train, ending their power trip, and telling thousands of corrupt, incompetent, and unnecessary deep state bureaucrats, "You're fired. Get the hell
out of here. You're fired. Get out of here." In 100 days, we have delivered the most profound change in Washington in nearly 100 years. I read a editorial today that this is the most consequential presidency in history. How about that? And it wasn't even by a group that would normally be supporting us.
It was a group of people that I think they tend to be on the liberal side, but they said it's the most important uh election, the November 5th. It changed it all. You have to see well you hear some of these numbers but that is the most consequential election that we've ever had in our country and what a nice thing.
I'm going to start again subscribing to that particular paper. Even if I don't read it much I'm going to subscribe. But it was a very nice compliment especially from them. They know who I'm talking about. We're ushering out the long reign of special interests and the radical left lunatics. And we're ushering in the golden age of America.
That's what we have. Right. Front Row Joe. Look at you. Front Row Joe's. I miss you guys. I miss the campaign. You haven't changed. You've lost a couple of pounds. Oh, he's probably he's probably getting to one of those jabers. You've lost a couple of pounds. You look good. And I have Mr. Wall here. This guy.
How many rallies have you gone to? Like hundreds. And we love him here. The wall. I'm going to one day I'm going to get that suit and I'm going to wear it on stage. We appreciate it, fellas. Great. Thank you. You know, we have a group of ladies. I don't know if they're here, but we have a group of women from North Carolina.
A large group, like 50 of the most beautiful women, and they've been to 129 rallies. They're happily married, I think, too. They just keep going to rallies all the time, but they're great. North Carolina, where we won by big numbers. Nowhere has this transformation been more dramatic than our southern border.
You have seen a change on your southern border that Sleepy Joe said couldn't happen. Sleepy Joe, the worst president in history, said it couldn't happen. The last administration engineered a massive border invasion, allowing gangs, cartels, and terrorists to infiltrate our communities and rape and murder our citizens.
And that is being nice about it. That's actually being nice about it. They are the worst. But standing before you today, I can proudly report that this heinous betrayal is over and that we have achieved the most secure border in American history by far. in American history. For two months in a row, we have now set all-time records, and this is by the media, the fake news media, which most of it is fake.
We've set all-time records for the lowest number of illegal border crossings ever recorded. Think of that. Ever recorded. The number of illegal border crossings released into the United States is down. Listen to this, please. 99.999%. Think of that. 99.999. Three people got in. Three. And I got angry as hell at Tom Holman.
And how did you allow three, Tom? I called up Christy. Christine Nome's doing a great job. Tom Hol. I said, "How did you allow three people?" No, they allowed a few in for medical reasons. They honestly they had a couple of were very sick. The ones that got in were really very sick and we had to take care of them, but it was a few people.
But three people got in versus hundreds of thousands in the last administration. Hundreds of thousands a month were pouring in. Biden had no control. Thank goodness he appointed a great borders. Right. Kamala. Kamala. Kamala. She was a great candidate. She was fantastic. Joe Biden was down 35 points. The debate was not a good one for him.
He said, "You know, if I didn't debate, I could have gone all the way." He was down 35 points and they decided to replace him. That never nothing ever happens like what happens to me. It never happens to anybody else. I had to beat two candidates. So he's down. This is like you're in a fight. Dana White, the UFC, you're in a fight and you you're just beating the guy so badly and they say, "Oh, let's put in another fighter." That's what happened.
And I knew nothing about her. She was vice president, but nobody knew a damn thing about her. She had nothing to do with the border even though she was appointed borders are the the great people all of the great people Paul and all of the border patrol people they never spoke to her they never heard about her for four years she never called but there's never been such a difference in anything as the difference between the border today and the border what it was just six months ago.
So I want to say congratulations America. It's about time. If we had not won the 2024 election. Oh, does that sound good? Right. We won the 24. All that work. The radical left Democrats would right now be importing the next 10 million invaders and giving amnesty to 30 or 40 million illegals. Many of them criminals.
Many of them frankly murderers and people of crime at the absolute highest level. Real real bad people. It would only be a matter of years or months until America itself became a failed third world nation. We were that was happening to us. We were going to be a third world nation. I'll tell you what, if these guys won, if this group of radical lunatics, and by the way, you know, Biden, we find out that whoever operated the autopen was the real president.
And Biden knew nothing about it. You know, we had a group of radical left guys who were very smart and and a woman, a particular woman, very very smart people. These are not stupid people. These are sick people, but they're not stupid people. And they were very smart. What they're best at is cheating at election.
They cheat on elections. That's their single greatest trait. They cheat like hell. And let me tell you, they tried to cheat on this election, but we made it too big to rig. Remember, too big to rig. They tried. I watched those numbers. I watched those numbers. We had Elon with us. Elon is a smart guy. Elon Musk. Elon Musk.
And I was sitting with Dana White and Elon Musk and I'm watching the numbers in Pennsylvania and we're winning so easily. Then all of a sudden it flatlined. And I said, you know, I said, I think they're cheating again. Look at this. What's going on? I think they're cheating again. And Elon looked at us. He goes, no, you're going to win.
They just don't know it yet. And about 15 minutes later, we won. you know, sort of crazy. I'll never forget you're going to win. They just don't know it yet. But you know what? We made it too big to rig. It was too big. Starting on day one, I deployed the US military to defend our country from the invasion of our border.
I shut down all migrant flights. Do you remember when we're talking about people coming in? They're trying to deny it. Okay? So, people are flowing in. They said, "No, I don't see any people." It's like, "What's wrong?" But then we saw airplanes going overhead. We said, "What the hell are those airplanes doing?" Big Boeing 757s were traveling right overhead, loaded up with people.
I say, "Where the hell are those planes going?" They were loaded up with migrants coming in illegally, flying in by plane, paid for by the US government. I'll tell you, they are they are sick. They are You remember that day? That was the day we found out that not only do we have to defend it here, we have to defend it not only in the water, but we have to defend it in the air. The planes were going over us.
I said, "What the hell is that?" I banned all welfare to illegals and I signed an order that will end automatic citizenship for the children of illegal aliens. No citizenship. For years, Joe Biden and the media told us that stopping the flood of illegal immigration was absolutely impossible. He said it was impossible.
He didn't know what the hell anybody was talking about. He said it was impossible that the president had no power to stop what was needed in the form of legislation. He needed legislation. He had no power to get it. But it turned out that all we needed was a new president. Within days of taking office, I signed the Lake and Riley Act.
Lake and Riley, beautiful Lake and Riley, who was killed by an illegal immigrant, viciously violently killed. But I signed the Lake and Riley Act to facilitate the expulsion of dangerous criminal aliens. And when necessary, we had to put them in jail. We couldn't take a chance that they'd come back in again.
In recent weeks, ICE, who are great, these people are great, has arrested dozens of child rapists along with murderers, kidnappers, drug traffickers, and thieves, and frankly, people from mental institutions. We've designated six murderous Mexican drug cartels as foreign terrorist organization. We have also designated two bloodthirsty transnational gangs, MS-13 and trendy raw TDA.
They've been designated the highest level of terrorist and that lets us do a lot of things that you wouldn't be able to do. We got to get them out of here before they kill more people. They've killed plenty. My administration has increased arrests of known and suspected terrorists by 655%. Is that okay? We tried to get it higher.
We tried to get it higher, but the courts are giving us a hard time. Can you believe? You know, I won on the basis of I think the number one thing was on illegal immigration, the border. The people pouring across our border that are from all over the world. They're they're unbelievably bad in many cases unbelievably bad people. I think that was the number one thing and now the courts are trying to say that you know that doesn't matter.
I don't think it's going to be allowed to stand. Democrats have vowed mass invasion and mass migration. We are delivering mass deportation and it's happening very fast. And the worst of the worst are being sent to a nononsense prison in El Salvador. Why don't you watch watch this? Watch this. Take a look. Get it. Right. I got
it. Heat. Heat. Heat. Hey, Heat. Here we go. commander
anything. Hey USA. USA. So under President Trump, America is a dumb. Americans, the radical left Democrats, who are so bad for this country, are fighting to protect TDA, you just saw that, and MS-13 criminals. And you don't even know which is worse. But they are the top of the line. For years, Democrat politicians did not raise one word of protest as American women and girls were raped and slaughtered by these monsters.
They were raped and slaughtered by numbers that you don't even want to hear about. But the second we try to deport them, the radical Democrat party is racing to the defense of some of the most violent savages on the face of the earth. Who the hell would vote for these people? They're racing to the courts to help them.
But this is not what the people want. This is not what they voted for in record numbers. I won the election. We won every swing state. We won the popular vote. And we got 312 electoral college votes. And just this month, two Venezuelan members of TDA Strea were arrested in Washington State for kidnapping a 58-year-old woman driving a power drill through her hand to extort her bank account information, shooting her, leaving her for dead.
And miraculously, she just survived. But she's not feeling so well. In January, a trendy Ara member in Chicago kidnapped three women, took them in an alley, lined them up, and shot them each in the head. They all died. And the FBI recently assessed that these vicious gangs have been sent by the foreign regime in Venezuela to ferment violence and instability in the United States of America. Can't let that happen.
And it's not just, in all fairness, not Venezuela. It's all over the world. It's all over. They come in from the Congo. They come in from Africa. the Congo. They've emptied out their prisons into our country, but they come from Africa, Asia, South America. They come from all over bad parts of Europe. That's why we've invoked the Alien Enemies Act to expel every foreign terrorist from our soil as quickly as possible.
Never forget the same people that we now claim we're not and we're not going to we're just not taking this crap anymore. We can't. They're claiming that we're not allowed to deport illegals. And they're the ones who orchestrated an eight-year campaign to jail their political opponents. Do you know what I mean? They want to jail.
They want to jail. That's all they can do. Jail their political opponents. What they did to people is a disgrace. And now they come after us. Why are you not nice to them? Why are you not nice to them? They tried to jail your president. They tried to jail except for the really courageousness of a few very good judges.
You know, we could have been we could have been calling you from the other side of the bar saying, "Hey fellas, how about a little protest? How about a little protest?" But they cheered the assassination of CEOs, looted our cities, and destroyed our property. No, they tried to jail our politicians, and they tried to jail a lot of people, many of whom didn't even know what the hell they were being looked at for.
These people are criminals. If they had their way, we would be living in a third world hell hole. That's what they want. Removing the invaders is not just a campaign pledge. It's my solemn duty as commander-in-chief. I have an obligation to do it. Save our country. And that's why we got despite the fake polls.
You know, they do these polls where they interview far more Democrats than Republic. I saw them over the last few days and I had them checked out. They interview far more Democrats for the polls. They interview Democrats by big numbers and then Republicans by small. They say Trump only has a 44% approval rating.
Well, it's actually not bad, but when you figure that if it were a legit poll, it would be in the 60s or 70s. Is these people are a bunch of crooked people? No, they interview more Democrats than Republicans. In other words, they take the poll and they interview Democrats. They poll Democrats and then they say they try and depress it as much just like they write bad stories.
97% of the stories written about me, think of it, were negative. And yet we won in a landslide because they have no credibility. And also, we cannot allow a handful of communist radical left judges to obstruct the enforcement of our laws and assume the duties that belong solely to the president of the United States.
judges are trying to take away the power given to the president to keep our country safe and it's not a good thing. But I I hope for the sake of our country that the Supreme Court is going to save this because we have to do something. These people are just looking to destroy our country.
Nothing will stop me in the mission to keep America safe again. It's very simple. Keep America safe again. And our first 100 days have also produced historic results in the battle to defeat Biden's inflation disaster and bring jobs and wealth back to America and bring them back to Michigan. Okay, we want to bring it back. As an example, since I took office, the cost of eggs is down 87%.
Now, right, you remember a few weeks ago before Thanksgiving, before we heard about it before I heard about it a long time ago before Thanksgiving, I heard about it and then I was hearing that I wasn't president. This guy was barely president. Nobody knew was he president. Who the hell was president? To this day, I say it was the one that operated the autopen, but who what do I know? But I was hearing about eggs.
And then all of a sudden, we have a great election victory. And my first week in office, they start screaming at me, "What about the price of eggs? Eggs? Eggs?" I said, "I've only been here for six days." I was there six days. I said, "What's wrong with eggs?" They said, "The price of eggs has gone through the roof and you won't be able to have them for Easter.
" So I put a very capable Brooke Rollins, who's our wonderful commissioner of agriculture that you know in Michigan. I said, "Broo, I've only been here six days before I heard, maybe even less, maybe five, maybe four, but it was my first week." And I said, "Broo, you got to save me here.
I'm getting killed about eggs. What the hell's going on with eggs?" She said, "Well, you can't get them. the price is through the roof and it looks like we're gonna have a real problem for Easter. You're not going to have eggs. I said, "Brooke, that doesn't sound politically viable to me. That doesn't sound good because nobody's going to believe me when you get out there that it's sleepy Joe Biden's fault.
" So, Brooke, you got to get going, Brooke. Please. And she did a great job. And you had so many eggs for Easter and your price was down 87% from that point. Prices are coming way down. You know, the fake news doesn't say they said he pledged. Now, I pledged safe orders. I pledged all sorts of things, but they said he pledged to bring prices down.
Well, that's what I've done. They're trying to say the prices have gone up. Your energy, your car, your gasoline, and they have three states this week, a couple of days ago, that were $1.98 a gallon. So, gasoline prices are down by a lot. Energy prices are down. Mortgage rates actually just went down.
Prescription drug prices just saw their largest monthly decline ever recorded. How about that? Remember what you heard? prescription drug prices just took the biggest plunge ever since they've recorded the prices which have basically gone up except for my four years. They did pretty well but uh we got to know that system.
The system is a bad system but they just took the biggest uh dive ever in the history of prescription drug prices. Think of that. That's a big thing. I got to say it again and again because they will never tell you that. The fake news will never tell you that. Grocery prices have gone down. Everything's gone down. And yet, I saw this person on MSDNC, which I think is probably even worse than CNN.
It's probably worse. Probably worse than CNN. But I saw this this horrible horrible anchor. How these people get jobs. I wouldn't hire them to do the most menial of chores. But I saw this person. He campaigned on bringing prices down. Every price has gone down. What am I going to do? I mean, think of it. Gasoline was almost $4 not so long ago.
And now, Mike, we just hit 198 in a lot of states. Think of it. And they're saying and and you know what? And inflation is basically down. And interest rates came down despite the fact that I have a Fed person who's not really doing a good job. But I won't say that. I want to be very nice. I want to be very nice and respectful to the Fed.
You're not supposed to criticize the Fed. You're supposed to let him do his own thing. But I know much more than he does about interest rates. Believe me. Core inflation has reached the lowest rate in four years. And last month, we had the largest drop in consumer prices since the pandemic.
This is all done in a 100 days. Think of that. This is all done in a 100 days. But when you watch the fake news, you see fake polls. Again, they poll more Democrats than Republican. Democrats aren't going to say, "I'm going to vote for Trump." And we still got 45 44%. But on the legitimate polls, I think we're in the 60s.
I really I think we're in the 60s or 70s or something. In three months, we have created 350,000 jobs. Think of that. For the first time in recent memory, job gains for nativeborn Americans now exceed job gains for foreign workers. This is for the first time, and nobody even knows when. Americans now are doing better than foreign workers.
How about that? I mean, that's okay. I want the foreign I want everyone to do well, but that's okay. And to curb inflation, we're cutting a record number of job killing regulations. We beat in the four-year first administ, which was a tremendous success. We cut more regulations than any president in history, including uh two-term presidents, including Roosevelt, who was more than a two-term president.
We cut more regulations than any president in history in one term and now our second term. And you know, I don't know why it was so important to win because they used to say the fake news, to be a great president, you have to serve two terms. So now we're going to serve two terms. Now they've taken that one. Cross. Right. Right. Dr.
Oz, cross that one off. Cross that one off. No, they say it all the time. When I was out, they say, "Well, they go out. Thank you. Thank you." Sure. But we've ended the radical left. Well, we actually already served three, but if you count, but remember, I like the victories. I like the three victories, which we absolutely had.
I just don't like the results of the middle term. The results. I don't want those results, John. I don't want those results. What results? What a disgrace. If we would have had this group for another year, we wouldn't have a country left. I really mean it. I don't think we would have had a country left.
And now we're respected all over the world. They're coming from all over the world to see your president. They're coming from India. They're coming from France. They're coming from Spain. Yeah. They're coming from China, too. Yeah. They're coming from China. They're coming from all over the world to see your president.
They want to make a deal. They want to make a deal. And you know, we'll make deals, but we don't have to. We are the ones that have the product. We are the ones at the United States. They want a piece of our product. We can just set the price. But I want to be respectful and I want to be nice. But if it takes too long, I'll just set a price.
Say you could buy or you don't have to buy. We lost, think of this, we lost billions and billions of dollars a day. Billions, not millions, billions of dollars a day. And under sleepy Joe Biden, what's better, Crooked Joe or Sleepy Joe? Ready? A poll. A free poll. Cuz these pollsters are so corrupt. I This is a real poll.
We're going to poll Crooked Joe or Sleepy Joe. Ready? What's What's a better name for us to call him? Sleepy Joe or Crooked Joe? That's I'm not surprised this happens. I sort of loved Sleepy Joe, you know, it just had a nice ring to it cuz he had one ability I didn't have. He goes to the beach, right? and he could fall asleep at a cottage drooling out of the side of his mouth and he'd be sleeping within minutes carrying the aluminum chair.
You know the kind that's meant for old people and children to carry. It weighs like about 4 ounces and he couldn't get his feet out of the sand and he'd sleep. He'd fall in this thing and with it and he'd have, you know, he's president so you'd have cameras. He'd be in a bathing suit. Somebody convinced him that he looks great in a bathing suit.
He's 82 years old. Carrie Grant didn't look great in a bathing suit when he was 82. You don't look great. You know, at some point you you have other assets, okay? But that's that one. But he'd he'd go and he'd walk in the sand and he'd fall into that thing and within seconds he was leaping. I'd be tossing and turning and scheming and thinking and saying, "How am I going to beat China? How am I going to stop the war with Russia and Ukraine?" This guy could fall asleep with cameras blazing, right? Not too many cameras were blazing, but enough were blazing
that you saw it. I thought it was a great ability that he had. Actually, we've ended the radical left war on American energy. We've stopped their crusade on coal. Did you see what I did the other day? Clean, beautiful coal. I said you're not allowed to use the word coal unless you say clean, beautiful coal.
So you have guys getting up, Department of Energy, we have great people at Department of Energy. They talk about clean, beautiful coal. You know, China uses coal. They're opening up a coal plant every week, a massive coal plant. But we're not allowed to use it. But now we are because last week I gave it absolute total approval.
And you know what? I don't give approval to those stupid windmills that go round and round and round. And we've ended the Green New Deal. We've reopened Anoir, the greatest drilling site anywhere in the world in Alaska, and implemented the new energy policy of the United States. You know what it is? We have a policy.
It's called drill, baby drill. That's our policy. That's our policy, Michael. Right. Great. Michael Watley, head of the Republican party. He's done a good job. Him and Laura, they took the party by storm, right? He had But he had a good candidate, but had a couple of good candidates, didn't he? Michael's been incredible, actually.
Michael Watley, North Carolina. He watched in 2020. He did so good for me in, you know, he was in North Carolina. He did so great. What's the problem over there? What's the problem? Is that a radical left lunatic? He's just a child. All right, get about Yeah. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, ma'am. I thought it was a guy. Thank you.
And she now has to go home to her mother who's a big Trump fan. Her mother's watching. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I I said he and it's a she. I'm sorry. To keep my promise to the great state of Michigan, I terminated Joe Biden's insane electric vehicle mandate where you were mandated to buy an electric vehicle. You were mandated within just a few years to buy an electric vehicle.
How about that? And you know what? They're great, but people don't not everybody wants them. You got to be able to buy a hybrid, a gasoline powered car. You can buy lots of different cars, but you can't be mandated to do anything. And I've already proudly imposed a 25% tariff on all foreign automobiles. Any any foreign car like they do, Todd.
This is going to create more jobs in this state and this country. And to help these auto makers bring their factories home as rapidly as possible, I've just signed an executive order to give partial tariff rebates to any company that assembles its cars right here in the USA. In other words, in other words, if they can't make it in time, because they have to do it here, otherwise they have I'm giving them a little bit of a break, right? They took in parts from all over the world.
I don't want that. I want them to make their parts here, but I gave them a little bit of time. It's 15% and then 10% of the parts. So, it's not so bad. Somebody would say, "Oh, well, that's a change in part." It's not. It's called a little flexibility. The guys were crying. They love it. Everything's good. But just in case we can't get everything in time. We gave them a little bit.
So, it's 15% of the parts and then it's 10% of the parts. We give them a little time before we slaughter them if they don't do this. Right. They're going to make so much money. They're going to have so many jobs. No, but jobs are way up. Jobs are way up. We're pleased to be joined tonight by Brian Panbecker.
Do you know who that is? Of the auto workers for Trump. And Brian is a union guy. Loves the unions. Loves everything. But he knew that Trump was right. Brian, come up here. Brian, I got to see Brian. Look at the arms in this guy. Look at the arms. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President. It's a great honor to be here on your 100th day in office of your second term.
And I just want to remind you of something I told you at one of your last rallies before the election. I have got it on video. I've watched it dozens of times at home. After I was able to speak, I turned to you and I said, "Mr. President McComem County is going to win Michigan for you. And that's exactly what happened. We had a margin of victory of 70,000 votes in this county alone. Thank you, Mcome County.
You know, I met President Trump eight years ago in Novi. And uh we had never met before. And as I was stepping towards him backstage to get my picture taken, I knew I only had 10 15 seconds to say something to him before we got our pictures. Fortunately, my son was standing behind me. So, I've got a witness to this. And I said, "Mr.
Trump, we've got the keys wait to the White House waiting for you in Mcome County." and he kind of chuckled. He said, 'Oh yeah, how's that? And I said, 'Well, Mome County is the home of the Reagan Democrats. If you come to Mcome County and you ask for their support and you get it, you might win Mcome County big enough to carry the whole state of Michigan.
And that's exactly what he did. So, I want to say thank you to the auto workers, everybody who works in the automotive field, the suppliers, every one of you, the truck drivers. Thank you so much for supporting the greatest president in our lifetimes. Now, I've got a little uh business announcement I want to make. I hope the president doesn't mind.
But when I was backstage with him earlier and got my picture taken, I said, "Mr. President, I've got a deal that you can't refuse." And he said, "What's that?" And I said, "Well, I'm writing a book, and it's going to be about my political journey. I've been involved in some things here in Michigan, conservative causes like right to work and the Michigan civil rights initiative.
" and and I said, um, you have a publishing company, Winning Team Publishing. It's run by Don Jr. and his partner. I said, I'll agree to use your publishing company if you agree to write the forward to my book. He stuck out his hand and said, "I'll do it." That's how you negotiate with the best negotiator in the world.
So listen, I got one last thing to say. All of us have a job to do. Number one, we have to win the 2026 elections. It has to happen. Shri Thanadar, that lunatic Democrat from Detroit, is already threatening to impeach President Trump if they get the majority back. But luckily, right now, we've got good people in Congress like Congressman John James over here who are stopping that from happening. But listen up.
So, we got to get out and and we don't have any time to waste. We got to start talking to our friends, our neighbors, our family, our co-workers. The the campaign for 2026 starts tomorrow. We've got to win that election. So, the work is not over. The work has just begun. November 5th was not the end.
It was the beginning of the golden age. And let's all let's all tell President Trump how much we support what he's done the first 100 days in office. Thank you. Oh, yeah. I forgot there's one other thing I wanted to say in front of all these thousands of people to President Trump. President Trump, I love you. That's great. Thank you. Good.
Good man. He's a great guy. You know, he was with me from day one. 2015 before 2016. He was there from day one. He got it. He said, "We're losing our car industry." That's what he really cared about. He lo He just said, "I had so many friends. They were laid off. It's horrible. They lay us off like it's nothing.
" And the business went to China. It went to Japan. Went to all countries all over the world. They're laying us off, sir. And he said, "We can solve that." I told him, "We can solve that so fast." He's one of the early people that got it. And we've solved it. We're going to be doing numbers that nobody's ever believed.
We have We'll be the number one in the world again. Nobody can believe it because we have been beaten up so badly by these countries that have rigged the whole thing. They they fight like hell. They're smart. Their product is good, but our product's going to be a lot better. We're going to do something that nobody believes and he saw it right at the beginning.
So, I appreciate it, Brian. And he was there at the I love the guys from the beginning. I love those early guys. Those guys are right there. They were there from the beginning. No, you you're going to see numbers and you're already seeing them. Look, you know, we have many Hondas coming in and they're coming in. They can't We let them build their cars here.
We don't want them to build them in Japan. We love Japan. We don't want them building them in Japan. We want them to build them here. We want China to build them in here. We want them all to build them right in here. That's what they've done to us for 40 years. And they've drained us. Now we're doing it to them at a better level than they ever dreamed possible to further rebuild the industrial bedrock of our country.
I've imposed 25% tariffs on foreign aluminum and steel. It's keeping our steel mills going. I did that. If I didn't do that with steel in the first uh my first term, we wouldn't have a steel mill in the United States right now and everybody knows that. I did it for washing machines, too, by the way. That's why I asked the people at Whirlpool. They were going to close.
They were in deep trouble. I did it because they were dumping machines. I did a 50% tariff. Was going to raise it to 100%. They didn't even have to bother. They became a tremendously successful company overnight. They were ready to close. They came to me with tears in their eyes in my office early on first term and uh we're doing it now at levels never seen before and it the results are going to be even better even better because we've been abused by friend and foe and in many cases friend has abused us more so than foe on trade.
So I want to just let you know you're going to be very proud of this country very soon. And with my China tariffs we're ending the greatest job theft in the history of the world. China's taken more jobs from us than any country has ever taken from another country. And that doesn't mean we're not going to get along. We'll get along with China.
I mean, the tariff now is at 145%. So essentially, they said that's a big difference between that and zero. But I think it's going to work out. They want to make a deal and they're going to we're going to make a deal, but it's going to be a fair deal. It's not going to be a deal that we lose a trillion dollars a year like they did with Biden. That guy was so bad.
He was so bad under Biden. And remember this, we were losing $5 billion dollar a day on trade. And now we're making money. We're actually making money instead of Do you know what? Five billion. Think of that, Mike. Five. How many pillars you have to make to lose five billion dollars? You can make them for a thousand years.
No, we were losing five billion dollars a year. Now we've got it where we're making money. And the tariffs haven't even really kicked in. The 25% on cars have. But you know what that means? That means that you're going to make the cars. We don't need the cars from outside. When they say, "Oh, sir, we want to send you a lot of cars.
" I said, "We really don't want your cars. We really don't want We want to make our own cars." That includes Canada. That includes Mexico who have taken tremendous a tremendous amount of our business. Canada's taken off a tremendous like 10 12%. Mexico is 32%. They took 32% of our car production. We don't want them to have that.
We want that. Why are we giving it to them? Why are we subsidizing Canada $200 billion a year? Why are we subsidizing Mexico for $300 billion a year? There's no reason for it. I'm proud to be uh the president for the workers and not the outsourcers. A president who stands up for Main Street, not Wall Street.
You know, I like Wall Street. I like Wall Street. I have a gorgeous, beautiful building on Wall Street, 40 Wall Street. Anybody? You want a little space? I'll get you some space real quickly. Now, I've got one of the most beautiful buildings in the world on Wall Street. But I still like Main Street because you're Main Street.
I want Main Street over Wall Street. And we uh want to protect the middle class, not the political class. That's all. I haven't done this very long. We want to protect We want to protect our people. You know, this is the greatest when you think about this. Look, here we are. It's not even like election.
It's after the election and you have crowds like this and TA have them. We're going to do the commencement at uh University of Alabama. And they just called and they said, "This going to be the biggest crowd we've ever had for we've never had a crowd like this." And I'm doing it at West Point.
And they called and said the same thing. We love West Point. We love University of Alabama. We love Alabama. You know how what I want Alabama by? Like uh almost 50 points. So when they called and they say, "Would you like to do the commencement?" I said, "Okay, I'll do it." But they're going to have the biggest crowd they ever had by maybe four or five times.
They told me, "Thanks for all of the things that we've done and to our policies. Trillions of dollars are now pouring into the United States because of common sense." Just common sense. Apple, great company, was building everything in China. Now, they just announced that they're spending $500 billion dollar to invest in America, not in China.
My friend Jensen from Nvidia, they're spending, you know what Nvidia is? They're spending $500 billion. TSMC, the biggest chip maker in the world by far from Taiwan, they're spending $200 billion dollar in the United States. Amazon $21 billion. Johnson and Johnson $55 billion. The MAC $20 billion. Merc Stalantis, General Motors are putting in billions and billions of dollars.
And many other companies and as a result of our policies, for the first time in modern history, more Americans believe that our country is headed in the right direction than the wrong direction. They have a poll, a crazy poll, probably a fake poll, too. So, I don't know. I don't care.
But first time ever in I think ever that they're saying the country is headed in the right direction. Has never happened before. I don't know why, but we've accomplished more in three months than most administrations accomplished in four years or even eight years. And we're just getting started. Believe me, we're just getting started. We're pleased to be joined by some great people.
A person that I number one I have so much confidence in him. They the fake news is after him. Really after him. But he's a tough cookie. They don't know how tough he is. Secretary of Defense Pete Hegen. Pete. Wow, that's pretty good. How are the hoodies doing? Not too good, right? Our new administrator of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, somebody that everybody knows, but this guy, you know, the show was a big success, but sometimes it hurts your image to have a television show.
He's the top. I mean, he went to Harvard. I shouldn't even mention that anymore because that used to be a good thing. today. It doesn't mean much, but he went to University of Pennsylvania Medical School. Top student, top doctor, top everything. One of the smartest guys in medicine, also a big star, Dr. Meett Oz.
Dr. Oz. Thank you, doctor. Thank you. A man who waited today, just came here. He was all sweaty and grimy. I said, "What the hell happened?" He ran into the building because he wanted to vote in Congress. And I hear we passed the vote, John James, by a lot. Right. And thank you for making it here. He wanted He had a vote.
I said, John, do me a favor. Stay and vote. We're voting essentially on the big beautiful that gorgeous big beautiful bill. I said, you know, I want you there badly, but you got to vote, please. So, thank you very much, John. Good job. Michigan House Speaker Matt Hall. Matt, thank you. Thank you, Matt. Michigan Senate Republican Leader Eric Nesbin. Thank you, Eric.
Thank you very much. Michigan GOP Chair Jim Runstead. Thank you, Jim. Good job. Nice time. Thank you, Jim. Great job. One of my favorite people. I mean, we just had such success. You know, we had uh so many votes stolen in 2020. And then this guy came in and they didn't steal them from his state, North Carolina. Told you.
But they didn't steal them. He had 601 lawyers and they had lawyers at every voting booth. And I said, "Who is that guy that did so well because we won the state. Other states, you know, they inched us out and, you know, at the end they inch, they just inch us out. Crooked as hell." But this guy didn't let that happen.
His name is Michael Watley, North Carolina. and now he's the head of the Republican party RNC and he's great and I must tell you he worked with a great woman my daughter-in-law Laura who was unbelievable who's got a very successful television show that was a tremendous combin that was a very important combination also the great and you see him on television he's unbelievable hey Stephen come up here fast the great Stephen Miller do we like Stephen Come here, Stephen.
I love this guy. I love this guy. There is nobody smarter or tougher than Stephen Miller. Stephen, say who's enjoying a hundred golden days of America. President Trump has achieved the most secure border in American history. He's fighting violent crime. He's fighting the drug cartels. He's cutting your taxes. He's cutting wasteful spending.
He's draining the swamp. He's standing up to the radical left. He's standing up to the communists. And he's making America stronger than it's ever been. President Trump will never stop fighting for you, your children, and your family. And President Trump will make sure that in this country, not illegal aliens, not criminals, not gang bangers, but American citizens come first, last, and always. Thank you.
And thank you, President Trump, for being the greatest president in American history. He's great. This guy, he is something special. and he's been with us right from day one. Right from day one, Stephen's been there. Right. He's been great. A man who put on about 928 rallies for me. We didn't have we didn't have a glitch. Justin Caparell.
Justin, thank you. Wherever you are, he's probably backstage working. We did we did over 900 of these. Thank you, Justin. And Margot Martin. Does anyone know Margot? Beautiful Margot. I call her the world's greatest photographer. Where is Margot? Margot is great. Where are you, Margot? And she's very shy, actually. She's both beautiful and shy.
Thank you. Where? Where? Margot, come up here, Margot. Come up. Come up. You got to This is the most beautiful. Now, I'm not allowed to say this. It's the end of my political career, but I'm going to say it anyway. She's the most beautiful photographer in the world. I don't know if she's the best.
But she's the most beautiful Trump 2028. Anybody? People love Margot. And how about Caroline? How's Caroline doing? Huh? How is our Caroline doing? Caroline has taken the world by storm. She's taken it. And you know, we have a a man here that I don't know, but he's defending me all the time on CNN. And he defends me really well, but he can't go too far because if he goes too far, he'll get fired.
I said, "You're amazing. You can take it right to the edge." And he really does a good job. He's not allowed to go any further. He would be off, you know, if he really went totally crazy, which he'd like to do. But I think he's terrific. Scott Jennings. Where's Scott? Where are you, Scott? Come here, Scott.
This guy really I've watched him for years. I don't know him, but he likes Trump. Come here, Scott. Oh, CNN. This is the end of Scott. Who cares? Don't worry. We'll take care of you, Scott. Scott Jennings. Really great. Thank you. Thank you. Michigan. We were flying in here today and I said, "Look at these farms. I got to get a farm in Michigan because when you own as many libs as I do, you got to put a place to put them all.
" Thank you all very much. Thank you, Scott. And I also want to thank the rest of the Michigan Republican delegation for all the work they do in Congress and who are back in Washington working on the big beautiful bill. the big we're going to name it I think the big beautiful bill. In a 100 days I've taken more than 1,000 executive actions and I could recite our accomplishments all night long.
And by the way, did you just see what I did? Straws. I wiped out the paper straw. Little thing. These are the little things. Your sink. You ever try buying a new sink and no water comes out? Your showerheads, your toilets, the whole thing. It's a disaster. We now have it so you can have as much water as you want because it's not an environmental problem.
You have areas they can't get rid of their water and yet they have they put restrictors on them. You used to take them off but now you can't because they're welded in. But now you don't have to worry about that because we've opened up your faucets and we've opened up especially me. I don't like taking a shower where the water goes drip drip drip onto my luxurant air. I need a lot of water.
I need everything I can get. I don't need to be under a shower trying to get water to come out of that damn thing. So, we've opened up the showerheads, the faucets, the toilets, the washing machines that don't give you water. All of that stuff has been opened up and we're giving you gas ovens, gas stoves if you'd like.
No more electric. You can have electric if you want. I have a lot of friends. They like gas better. You're supposed to sell your gas stove or get it I don't know who do you sell it to. Maybe another country because we're the only country that would be so stupid to that. But uh the stoves now you can have gas stoves all you want.
Put four of them in your kitchen. I couldn't care less. It's all common sense. People were so angry about that. Remember they were all angry. Get rid of your gas stove. You have to go to electric. There's something they have with electric that's amazing. And by the way, Elon makes a great car. But not everybody's going to want it.
You know, they all say, "Oh, well, Trump is maybe he's under the under the thumb of Elon. Do you think Elon was happy about ending the all electric mandate?" I don't think he was too happy. But he's a great guy, you know. Honestly, never said a thing. He says, "Let me just compete fairly." By the way, it's not fair what they've done to him, too.
That is a disgrace. That is a disgrace. But he's a great guy and he's really helped us. And you know they've saved $150 billion dollars on waste, fraud, and abuse doge. So we want to thank him. He's a incredible guy. Anybody that can land a rocket ship, I saw this thing come in. I said, "You got to be kidding.
This rocket's coming in." You know, most of them go right into the ocean, but he lands it. I was on the phone with somebody talking and I saw this thing coming in. It's spinning out of control, coming down. It's all burning. It's on fire. Looks like hell. I said, "Well, just another rocket going into the ocean.
" And then all of a sudden, you see the fire pouring out of the engines and it starts to slow up, slow, then it's straight. Then it starts moving over a little bit. Then I say, "Oh no, it's hitting the gandry. It's going to hit, you know, and the engines go straightens it out and it gets hugged like you hug your beautiful little baby, right?" And I said, "Who the hell did that?" It was Elon.
And he told me, "You don't have a space program if you have to drop a billion dollar machine into the water every time you fly. You have to save those suckers." So, he does. He's he's an amazing guy and he's a great American and he loves our country. He loves you and uh he's paid he's paid a big price to help, but I have a feeling it's going to end up being good for him.
Actually, I really do. I established the new presidential commission to make America Healthy Again, chaired by our new Secretary of Health and Human Services, Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., he's doing a good job, Dr. Oz, right? He's doing a good job. And he's a little bit different, but I want to tell you, he's a great guy.
He's a great guy, and he loves his country. Just last week, Bobby announced that we're banning eight major artificial dyes from our food supply. Sounds good to me. And on day one, I created that very right right now very successful Department of Government efficiency headed by Elon. That was a big thing doing that. I mean, the numbers are really incredible. Doge.
So, it was a very big thing. We terminated the left-wing money laundering scam known as USAID. How about the money that was going out? How about the money that was going out? Billions and billions. They were giving individual people billions of dollars. Can you believe it? People that had nothing. They got a billion.
They got one got two billion. Two billion for the environment. Had a $100 in the bank. They got two billion dollar. Not two million. You know, two million would have been a lot. 200,000 would have been a lot, but it would have been fine. Two billion dollars. And we directed all federal workers to return to the office in person or unfortunately they're fired.
You're fired. You know, some of these guys got their golf handicap way down during the so-called time where they're supposed to be working at home. You know, they weren't working at home. Who the hell would work at home? How do you work at home? and terrible. And we, you know, we found a lot of them where they had second jobs.
They were just taking us for a ride. They're all taking us for a ride. The foreign countries were really taking us for a ride, both on military and on trade. But we stopped it and we're stopping it. I withdrew from the unfair and ridiculous Paris climate accord where we were paying trillions of dollars. We would have spent numbers like you wouldn't believe.
And China wouldn't have spent anything. Russia wouldn't have spent anything. India wouldn't have spent. But we would have spent over a trillion dollars. I withdrew from the corrupt World Health Organization where we were paying $470 million and China was paying with a population quite a bit larger than ours. Thank you.
Where Let's The problem with us, we have no idea what size our population. They allowed so many people on under Biden. But let's assume it's 325 million. China's 1.4 billion. We were paying $470 million and China was paying $39 million and China was running the whole show. So I said, "No, thank you." I withdrew. They offered me to sign up at 39 million.
I still said no because it was sort of scammy. I didn't like it. And Biden came back in and he signed up. And they knew we could have signed up for 39 million or less. He came back in and he signed up for the same as what they were paying before, almost $500 million. Now, that's a lot of money, but it's nothing compared to the trillions of dollars that they waste.
But that's the way it is. They know they can sign up for less. They don't even care. It's like they don't want to have the conversation. And you're talking about a $450 million difference. But they came up right in the first week. He said, "No, no, we're going right back in." Okay, I can understand that. But you go in for 39 million.
and they could make a deal for 39 million. They signed up for $472 million and I withdrew from the anti-American UN Human Rights Council, which is totally disgusting. In three months, my administration has brought home 46 American hostages and citizens detained abroad. We paid nothing. We don't pay. We don't pay. You know, if you pay those kidnappings go way up, we don't pay.
Every time Biden brought people back, they'd pay six billion. Six billion. Six billion. Three times they brought back three hostages. Oh, how is it? Well, I think it's a fair deal. What do we pay? $6 billion. Wait a minute. For three people? Six billion. Six billion dollars. It's not right. I mean, it's just not right. They have no idea.
Honestly, grossly incompetent, stupid people. More than Biden brought home in four years. We brought more back in just a matter of weeks than Biden brought home in years. And he paid a fortune and we paid nothing. We got Mexico to turn over 29 of the biggest cartel leaders in their country. And we're charging Mexico and Canada and China big tariffs because of the fact that they've allowed fentinol to come in and poison our country.
They're paying a lot of money for that. And because of that, you'll watch. It's going to stop. It's already slowing down. Within six weeks, we also apprehended the terrorists responsible for the attack that killed 13 American service members known as Abbegate. I got to know them. I got to know those families very well.
They're devastated during the disastrous withdrawal from Afghanistan and brought him home. I mean, we brought uh this guy home to America. We got the guy that did it. We got him. They were looking for years, but we got him. That it took us to get him. We got him on the in the first month, brought him home to face Justin.
And it was that gross incompetence that probably led Putin to go in and attack Ukraine because they were never going to. That was never going to happen. If I were president, the Ukraine Russia war would have never ever happened. Not even a little chance. We have ended the weaponization of law enforcement and fired Joe Biden's handpicked cro.
These are pro-rime US attorneys, except if it's a political person like me. You know, I was under investigation more than the late great Alons Capone. Al Capone was the greatest gangster of them all. If he had dinner with you and if he didn't like you, you were dead. You were a dead person. You'd be under a foundation somewhere in a nice big building or sports center growing up.
And I spent far more time under investigation than Alons Capone. How about that? You like that? I didn't like that. I didn't like it. We removed senior FBI officials who were corrupt and misdirected the resources they sent to SWAT teams after grandmothers and J6 hostages. What they did to those J6 hostages.
And they did nothing to the people that took over Portland and took over Seattle. They literally took over a big portion of Seattle or in Minnesota, Minneapolis, you remember that disaster where they said, "No, this is a peaceful rally." The CNN lunatic anchor, the guy has about the personality of an ant. This is not a man meant for television.
He said, he said, "No, the rally is quite peaceful." Then he got hit with a brick or something. And over his shoulder, the entire skyline of Minneapolis was burning. You remember that one? The entire skyline was burning. And I have to be careful because that gentleman right there, one of the greatest purchases of advertising in the history of the world, Mike Lindell.
There has never been a better purchaser. He comes from Minnesota. Oh, congratulate. He's the greatest purchaser of ads in history. If he would have bought my ads, I could had 10 times more ads on. has never been have. Is there any station that doesn't have a pillow added? But he's great and he's doing great and he's got a beautiful new wife and all that stuff and I'm proud of you.
Look at him holding hands. They're still holding hands. I'm very proud of that's nice. Usually by this time usually in a lot of people I know, Mike, by this time it's over. It's over. Look at you holding hands. I love that. I saw that. I pardoned hundreds of political prisoners who had been grossly mistreated.
We created a brand new DOJ task force on anti-Christian bias. It's a big problem. I stripped the security clearances of the disgraced intelligence agents who lied about Hunter Biden's laptop from hell. Remember the laptop from hell? Remember the laptop from hell? When you had the 51 agents, they said, "Oh, Russia did it.
Russia, Russia did it. Russia did everything. Russia did it." And it was all like horrible, disgusting stuff. You hadn't seen the worst of it, but it truly is the laptop. By the way, a very brilliant reporter for the New York Post wrote a book called The Laptop from Hell. You ought to read that book. It is really, it tells you the facts.
Okay? It tells you the facts. Mr. divine. The great the great Miss Divine. She wrote an amazing book actually, The Laptop from Hell. We also terminated the clearances of the Biden crime family and Joe Biden himself because he's corrupt. And I banned all government censorship and restored free speech in America. We have free speech.
We didn't have free speech. I ended all of the lawless so-called diversity, equity, and inclusion all across the entire federal government and the private sector. And I made it the official policy of the United States government that there are only two genders, male and female. And the really easy one, this was the easiest one I had.
I banned men from competing in women's sports. You know, they always say that's an 8020 issue. No, that's about a 973 issue. I also proudly ban the use of puberty blockers and other chemical and surgical right? All these mutilations of our minor youth. I banned it all. I signed executive orders to abolish critical race theory and transgender insanity from our schools and from our military.
We fired the woke boards of visitors at our militarymies. We have great people running our militarymies now. And I've directed the reinstatement of patriots expelled from our military by the Biden vaccine mandate with full back pay. After years of missed targets, our military suddenly has the best recruiting numbers in 30 years.
Every branch is setting records. Don't think of that. Six months ago, you and I were reading that nobody wanted to join the military. Right now, we've just set a record of recruitment that's stuffed. We have a waiting list of people that want to go into our military. And we have a waiting list, including for police and firefighters because our country has spirit again.
We have spirit. Our country has great spirit again. Last month, I signed a historic executive order to begin the process of eliminating the federal department of education and send education back to Michigan. We're going to send it back to our states, right? We're going to send it back to our states to run.
I mean, how the hell bad can we do? We're like in last place. They do badly, you're going to do better. They're going to do great, though. I think they're going to do great. We're s I'm very proud of it. Linda McMahon, by the way, is doing a phenomenal job. And I signed an order making English the official language of the United States of America.
I ordered the release of all remaining files related to the assassinations of Presidents John F. Kennedy, Robert Kennedy, and Martin Luther King Jr. And they're all out there. And I made myself very unpopular in Mexico by renaming the Gulf of Mexico the Gulf of America. And we are restoring the name of a great president, William McKinley, to Mount McKinley in Alaska.
It's a very good president. And you Italians are going to love me because just yesterday I brought back Columbus Day in America, especially for Italian Americans who were so badly treated by its removal. I also signed an order to require proof of citizenship to vote in American elections. That was easy.
And the Democrats fought me in that. Think of it. Why would they want no voter ID? Because they want cheese. Why would they want to have no proof of citizenship? We don't want it. We trust everybody. No, they want to cheat. That's all they want to do. Think of that. No voter ID in Michigan. You must never allow rank choice voting to be here.
Never. We've done this all in 14 weeks. That's one. Remember that. 100 days. We've done all of the things that I named and a lot more. And we're counting. And it's going to be get it's going to be better. Wait till you see the results of some of the things that we're doing. In the coming weeks and months, we will pass the largest tax cuts in American history.
And that will include no tax on tips, no tax on social security, no tax on overtime. It's called the one big beautiful bill, and it will be the biggest bill ever passed in our country's history. It will include the biggest tax cuts, regulation cuts, military supremacy, and just about everything else.
We will cut more than $1 trillion in wasteful and unnecessary spending. And in the next fiscal year, it'll all be done. We're going to have something that you won't even believe. We will end inflation, slash prices. We've already ended inflation, raise wages, and give you the greatest economy in the history of the world. That's already happening with our tax bill.
The average family's take-home pay will be at least $5,000 more than it was just a couple of months ago. We will always protect Medicare and Social Security for our great seniors with no cuts. And we will defend Medicaid for those great people that are in need. House Republicans are working to invest more money in Medicaid than we spend today.
The only thing we're going to cut is the corruption and the crooks that take advantage of some of the illegal scheme. So, we want to preserve Medicaid for the most vulnerable for our kids, pregnant women, the poor, and disabled Americans. We will fully and permanently secure our border. We will make the largest ever investment in US military and build the Golden Do Missile Defense Shield that's going to all protect us so we live a long and beautiful life.
It's going to be made in Michigan and it's going to be made right here in the USA. And one hour ago, I just made a speech at Selfridge Air Force Air National Guard Base, announcing that we are saving it, keeping it open, including thousands of jobs with a brand new state-of-the-art F15s, which are coming to South.
and we will crush violent crime and give our police the support, protection, resources, and respect they so dearly deserve. I will defend religious liberty, and I will defend the right to keep and bear arms. We will celebrate the 250th anniversary of America's founding in 2026. And we will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag.
And one day soon, American astronauts will plant the flag on the planet Mars. That's going to happen very soon. Every single day of my administration will continue to live by the motto promises made. And you've seen it before, promises kept. From Marquette to Midland, from Meno to Sageno, and from Lancing to right here in Mcome County, we stand on the shoulders of red-blooded Michigan patriots.
What great people. I love you, Michigan. who laid the railroads, worked the factories, tilled the field, forged the steel, fought the battles, and won the victories that built the motor city and made this state into the pride of the America Midwest. And you know what? We're going to make it better than it ever was. It's already happening.
You see what's happening? Michigan is the state that gave us the assembly line, Mottown, Ford, General Motors, Chrysler, and put the world behind the wheel of an automobile. And under our leadership, we are making it greater every single day. And the automobile business in Michigan will soon, and it's going to happen really soon. It's already happening.
They're signing left and right because of my taxation and tariff policies, which are policies of common sense and genius, be bigger and stronger and better than ever before. It's going to get better than ever before. And it won't even be close. Companies will be pouring back into Michigan. It was hardworking patriots like you who built this country.
And on November 5th, 2024, it was hardworking patriots like you who saved our country. So, thanks to your help, your love, and your support, after 100 days back in the White House, America is a free, proud, and sovereign nation once more. And our magnificent destiny is closer than ever before. It's closer than ever before.
You have no idea how close it is. Our golden age has only just begun. We are one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. We will never give in. We will never give up. We will never back down. We will never ever surrender. We will fight, fight, fight. And we will win, win, win. Together, we will make America powerful again.
We will make America wealthy again. We will make America healthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. I love you, Michigan. I love you. Have a good time. Thank you. God bless you all. God bless you. Thank you. There's no need to feel down. I said,
"Young man, pick yourself off the ground." I said, "Young man, you're in a new town. There's no need." I said young
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
Title: 
Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WkCbgcyncE8&t=15s

Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
Oh, thank you very much. Hello, Michigan. Hello. We love you, Michigan. We love you. We just had the biggest victory in Michigan. They said, "Sir, it's going to be hard." Well, we won it twice. We won it twice. We actually won it three times. You want to really know? But I'm thrilled to be back in this beautiful state.
I love the state. Got a lot of auto jobs coming. Watch what's happening. The companies are coming in by the by the tens. You got to see what's happening. They all want to come back to Michigan and build cars again. You know why? Because of our tax and tariff policy. They're coming from all over the world.
They're coming up and they're opening up plants and they're talking to us all day and all night. They want to get here and they're coming in at levels you've never seen before. And I want to thank the auto workers for your support. That was great. But I'm thrilled to be back in this beautiful state with thousands of proud, hardworking American patriots.
And we're here tonight in the heartland of our nation to celebrate the most successful first 100 days of any administration in the history of our country. And that's according to many many people. This is the best they say 100 day start of any president in history. And everyone is saying it. We're just we've just gotten started.
You haven't even seen anything yet. It's all just kicking in. And week by week, we're ending illegal immigration. We're taking back our jobs of protecting our great American auto workers and all of our workers. Frankly, we're protecting all of our workers. We're restoring the rule of law, which was sort of out the window with this crazy guy we had.
How the hell did that guy ever become president? Could somebody explain to me? How the hell did that happen? There's my friend Blacks for Trump. I like that guy. I like He's follows me. He follows me. We love you. Your whole group has been so supportive over the years. I want to thank you. I want to Everyone thinks I pay you a fortune.
I don't know. I don't even know who the hell he is. I just like him. It's true. Thank you very much. Thank all of the fellas. Thank them all. But we're ending the inflation nightmare. the worst that we've had probably in the history of our country. Getting woke lunacy and transgender insanity the hell out of our government.
We're stopping the indoctrination of our children, slashing billions and billions of dollars of waste, fraud, and abuse. And above all, we're saving the American dream. We're making America great again, and it's happening fast, too. What the world has witnessed in the past 14 weeks is a revolution of common sense. That's all it is really.
We're conservative. You're conservative. You're liberal. Whatever the hell you know what it's all about. It's about common sense when you think about it. We're for common sense. We like strong borders. We like good education. We like low interest rates. We like being able to buy a beautiful car. And now deduct the interest on the loan.
That's never happened before. We want a strong military. We want low taxes. You know, the Democrats, they campaign on, "We will raise your taxes." It's the first time. You know, I haven't been doing this that long. Actually, compared to a lot of people, they've been doing it for a long time. They say, "You became president.
I can't get out of Congress." Or some of them can't even get into Congress. But, you know, I haven't been doing it that long, but all my life I've been watching and I've never heard people campaigning that they're going to raise taxes. It's always been, "We will reduce your taxes, Democrat, Republican." Now, they go, "We're going to raise your taxes.
" If our bill doesn't pass, the Republicans, we have a 100% just about Republican support. But would be nice if we had just a couple of Democrats just to make sure because you know every once in a while you have a grandstander Republican. We have some grandstanders. But every once in a while, not many, not many, but remember who those grandstanders were and vote them the hell out of office.
Okay? Will you do that? Vote them out of office. You know, they do it morally. They're morally bound. You know what the answer is? If you if you don't get it, you're going to have the highest tax increase in history instead of the greatest tax cut in history. If the Democrats prevail on this bill, you get a 58% tax increase.
Would you like that? These are the Democrats, but I've never seen all the years they campaigned, we will raise your taxes. I say, and what a this place has gone this country has gone crazy. And today they did it again. Some guy that I'd never heard of. John James, is he a congressman? This guy, he said, he said, "Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to start the impeachment of Donald Trump.
" What the hell did I do? Here we go again. They want to impeach me. This This lunatic This lunatic, he was up. Actually, I had the television weigh down and I said to our great first lady, "Listen, did I just hear I was being impeached again. We're getting good at this, though." No, they've gone totally crazy. These people, and you know what? They've totally lost their confidence, too.
They can't even tell a lunatic like this dumb guy that said it. And then you have the other one that's always with the cane. He's always impeaching. He raises his cane. He always impeaches. But they have no control over those people. They have no control. And the reason is they've lost their confidence.
They have no confidence anymore as a party. They have no candidates. And you know, when they say that Bernie Bernie's probably the best they have, by the way, he's about seven years older than me, more eight years older. One thing I got to give him credit. He's a lunatic, but he's still pretty sharp.
And he's going around with AOC plus three. You know the plus three follow. They hang on for little bits. They hang on for nuggets and they get crowds. They say, "Oh, the crowd was Our crowds are so much bigger than their crowds. Their crowds are small." If I ever had a crowd like their biggest crowd, they'd say, "It's over for Trump.
He's lost the magic." But this is great. And all the people outside, we love you. We put screens up. We're taking back our country from a sick political class that got rich selling America out and bleeding America dry. We don't let that happen anymore. And we had four great years. We had the greatest economy in the history of our country.
The stock market went up 88%. We did great. And we're going to do better now because now we're really we learned a little bit after years of leaders who sent your money to defend the borders of distant foreign nations. That's what we did. We'd fight for other nations but not for oursel. You finally have a president who is defending our borders and our nation. Dr.
After decades of politicians who destroyed Detroit to build up Beijing, you finally have a champion for workers in the White House. And instead of putting China first, I'm putting Michigan first. And I'm putting America first. After a lifetime of unelected bureaucrats stealing your paychecks, attacking your values, and trampling your freedoms, we are stopping their gravy train, ending their power trip, and telling thousands of corrupt, incompetent, and unnecessary deep state bureaucrats, "You're fired. Get the hell
out of here. You're fired. Get out of here." In 100 days, we have delivered the most profound change in Washington in nearly 100 years. I read a editorial today that this is the most consequential presidency in history. How about that? And it wasn't even by a group that would normally be supporting us.
It was a group of people that I think they tend to be on the liberal side, but they said it's the most important uh election, the November 5th. It changed it all. You have to see well you hear some of these numbers but that is the most consequential election that we've ever had in our country and what a nice thing.
I'm going to start again subscribing to that particular paper. Even if I don't read it much I'm going to subscribe. But it was a very nice compliment especially from them. They know who I'm talking about. We're ushering out the long reign of special interests and the radical left lunatics. And we're ushering in the golden age of America.
That's what we have. Right. Front R row Joe. Look at you. Front Row Joe's. I miss you guys. I miss the campaign. You haven't changed. You've lost a couple of pounds. Oh, he's probably he's probably getting to one of those jabers. You've lost a couple of pounds. You look good. And I have Mr. Wall here. This guy.
How many rallies have you gone to? Like hundreds. And we love him here. The wall. I'm going to one day I'm going to get that suit and I'm going to wear it on stage. We appreciate it, fellas. Great. Thank you. You know, we have a group of ladies. I don't know if they're here, but we have a group of women from North Carolina.
A large group, like 50 of the most beautiful women, and they've been to 129 rallies. They're happily married, I think, too. They just keep going to rallies all the time, but they're great. North Carolina, where we won by big numbers. Nowhere has this transformation been more dramatic than our southern border.
You have seen a change on your southern border that Sleepy Joe said couldn't happen. Sleepy Joe, the worst president in history, said it couldn't happen. The last administration engineered a massive border invasion, allowing gangs, cartels, and terrorists to infiltrate our communities and rape and murder our citizens.
And that is being nice about it. That's actually being nice about it. They are the worst. But standing before you today, I can proudly report that this heinous betrayal is over and that we have achieved the most secure border in American history by far. in American history. For two months in a row, we have now set all-time records, and this is by the media, the fake news media, which most of it is fake.
We've set all-time records for the lowest number of illegal border crossings ever recorded. Think of that. Ever recorded. The number of illegal border crossings released into the United States is down. Listen to this, please. 99.999%. Think of that. 99.999. Three people got in. Three. And I got angry as hell at Tom Hman.
How did you allow three, Tom? I called up Christy. Christine Nome is doing a great job. Tom Hol. I said, "How did you allow three people?" No, they allowed a few in for medical reasons. They honestly they had a couple of were very sick. The ones that got in were really very sick and we had to take care of them, but it was a few people.
But three people got in versus hundreds of thousands in the last administration. Hundreds of thousands a month were pouring in. Biden had no control. Thank goodness he appointed a great border. Right. Kamala. Kamala. Kamala. She was a great candidate. She is fantastic. Joe Biden was down 35 points. The debate was not a good one for him.
He said, "You know, if I didn't debate, I could have gone all the way." He was down 35 points and they decided to replace him. That never nothing ever happens like what happens to me. It never happens to anybody else. I had to beat two candidates. So he's down. This is like you're in a fight. Dana White, the UFC, you're in a fight and you you're just beating the guys so badly and they say, "Oh, let's put in another fighter." That's what happened.
And I knew nothing about her. She was vice president, but nobody knew a damn thing about her. She had nothing to do with the border. Even though she was appointed borders, the the great people, all of the great people, Paul and all of the border patrol people, they never spoke to her. They never heard about her for four years. She never called.
But there's never been such a difference in anything as the difference between the border today and the border what it was just six months ago. So, I want to say congratulations, America. It's about time. If we had not won the 2024 election. Oh, does that sound good? Right. We won the 24. All that work.
The radical left Democrats would right now be importing the next 10 million invaders and giving amnesty to 30 or 40 million illegals. Many of them criminals. Many of them frankly murderers and people of crime at the absolute highest level. Real real bad people. It would only be a matter of years or months until America itself became a failed third world nation.
We were that was happening to us. We were going to be a third world nation. I'll tell you what, if these guys won, if this group of radical lunatics, and by the way, you know, Biden, we find out that whoever operated the autopen was the real president. And Biden knew nothing about it.
You know, he had a group of radical left guys who were very smart and and a woman, a particular woman, very very smart people. These are not stupid people. These are sick people, but they're not stupid people. And they were very smart. What they're best at is cheating at election. They cheat on elections. That's their single greatest trait. They cheat like hell.
And let me tell you, they tried to cheat on this election, but we made it too big to rig. Remember, too big to rig. They tried. I watched those numbers. I watched those numbers. We had Elon with us. Elon is a smart guy. Elon Musk, Elon Musk. And I was sitting with Dana White and Elon Musk and I'm watching the numbers in Pennsylvania and we're winning so easily.
Then all of a sudden it flatlined. And I said, you know, I said, I think they're cheating again. Look at this. What's going on? I think they're cheating again. And Elon looked at us. He goes, no, you're going to win. They just don't know it yet. And about 15 minutes later, we won. you know, sort of crazy.
I'll never forget you're going to win. They just don't know it yet. But you know what? We made it too big to rig. It was too big. Starting on day one, I deployed the US military to defend our country from the invasion of our border. I shut down all migrant flights. Do you remember when we're talking about people coming in, they're trying to deny it? Okay, people are flowing in.
They said, "No, I don't see any people." It's like, "What's wrong?" But then we saw airplanes going overhead. We said, "What the hell are those airplanes doing?" Big Boeing 757s were traveling right overhead, loaded up with people. I say, "Where the hell are those planes going?" They were loaded up with migrants coming in illegally, flying in by plane, paid for by the US government.
I'll tell you, they are they are sick. They are You remember that day? That was the day we found out that not only do we have to defend it here, we have to defend it not only in the water, but we have to defend it in the air. The planes were going over us. I said, "What the hell is that?" I banned all welfare to illegals and I signed an order that will end automatic citizenship for the children of illegal aliens. No citizenship.
For years, Joe Biden and the media told us that stopping the flood of illegal immigration was absolutely impossible. He said it was impossible. He didn't know what the hell anybody was talking about. He said it was impossible that the president had no power to stop what was needed in the form of legislation. He needed legislation.
He had no power to get it. But it turned out that all we needed was a new president. Within days of taking office, I signed the Lake and Riley Act. Lake and Riley, beautiful Lake and Riley, who was killed by an illegal immigrant, viciously, violently killed. But I signed the Lake and Riley Act to facilitate the expulsion of dangerous criminal aliens.
And when necessary, we had to put them in jail. We couldn't take a chance that they'd come back in again. In recent weeks, ICE, who are great, these people are great, has arrested dozens of child rapists along with murderers, kidnappers, drug traffickers, and thieves, and frankly, people from mental institutions.
We've designated six murderous Mexican drug cartels as foreign terrorist organization. We have also designated two bloodthirsty transnational gangs, MS-13 and trendy Iraq, TDA. They've been designated the highest level of terrorist and that lets us do a lot of things that you wouldn't be able to do.
We got to get them out of here before they kill more people. They've killed plenty. My administration has increased arrests of known and suspected terrorists by 655%. Is that okay? We tried to get it higher. We tried to get it higher, but the courts are giving us a hard time. Can you believe? You know, I won on the basis of I think the number one thing was on illegal immigration, the border.
The people pouring across our border that are from all over the world. They're they're unbelievably bad in many cases. unbelievably bad people. I think that was the number one thing and now the courts are trying to say that, you know, that doesn't matter. I don't think it's going to be allowed to stand. Democrats have vowed mass invasion and mass migration.
We are delivering mass deportation and it's happening very fast. And the worst of the worst are being sent to a nononsense prison in El Salvador. Why don't you watch watch this? Watch this. Take a look. Get it. Get it. Right there. I
got Heat. Heat. scare me. Hey Hallelujah. Easy.
USA. USA. USA. So, under President Trump, America is a dumping ground for criminals no longer, they're not even trying to come in. But while we're fighting to protect Americans, the radical left Democrats, who are so bad for this country, are fighting to protect TDA, you just saw that, and MS13 criminals.
And you don't even know which is worse, but they are the top of the line. For years, Democrat politicians did not raise one word of protest as American women and girls were raped and slaughtered by these monsters. They were raped and slaughtered by numbers that you don't even want to hear about.
But the second we try to deport them, the radical Democrat party is racing to the defense of some of the most violent savages on the face of the earth. Who the hell would vote for these people? They're racing to the courts to help them. But this is not what the people want. This is not what they voted for in record numbers. I won the election.
We won every swing state. We won the popular vote. And we got 312 electoral college votes. And just this month, two Venezuelan members of TDA Strea were arrested in Washington State for kidnapping a 58-year-old woman driving a power drill through her hand to extort her bank account information, shooting her, leaving her for dead.
And miraculously, she just survived. But she's not feeling so well. In January, Trendy Ara member in Chicago kidnapped three women, took them in an alley, lined them up, and shot them each in the head. They all died. And the FBI recently assessed that these vicious gangs have been sent by the foreign regime in Venezuela to ferment violence and instability in the United States of America. Can't let that happen.
And it's not just, in all fairness, not Venezuela. It's all over the world. It's all over. They come in from the Congo. They come in from Africa. the Congo. They've emptied out their prisons into our country, but they come from Africa, Asia, South America. They come from all over bad parts of Europe. That's why we've invoked the Alien Enemies Act to expel every foreign terrorist from our soil as quickly as possible.
Never forget the same people that we now claim we're not and we're not going to we're just not taking this crap anymore. We can't. They're claiming that we're not allowed to deport illegals. And they're the ones who orchestrated an eight-year campaign to jail their political opponents. Do you know what I mean? They want to jail.
They want to jail. That's all they can do. Jail their political opponents. What they did to people is a disgrace. And now they come after us. Why are you not nice to them? Why are you not nice to them? They tried to jail your president. They tried to jail. Except for the really courageousness of a few very good judges.
You know, we could have been we could have been calling you from the other side of the bar saying, "Hey fellas, how about a little protest? How about a little protest?" But they cheered the assassination of CEOs, looted our cities, and destroyed our property. No, they tried to jail our politicians, and they tried to jail a lot of people, many of whom didn't even know what the hell they were being looked at for.
These people are criminals. If they had their way, we would be living in a third world hell hole. That's what they want. Removing the invaders is not just a campaign pledge. It's my solemn duty as commander-in-chief. I have an obligation to do it. Save our country. And that's why we got despite the fake polls.
You know, they do these polls where they interview far more Democrats than Republic. I saw them over the last few days and I had them checked out. They interview far more Democrats for the polls. They interview Democrats by big numbers and then Republicans by small. They say Trump only has a 44% approval rating.
Well, it's actually not bad, but when you figure that if it were a legit poll, it would be in the 60s or 70s. Is these people are a bunch of crooked people? No, they interview more Democrats than Republicans. In other words, they take the poll and they interview Democrats. They poll Democrats and then they say they try and depress it as much just like they write bad stories.
97% of the stories written about me, think of it, were negative. And yet we won in a landslide because they have no credibility. And also, we cannot allow a handful of communist radical F judges to obstruct the enforcement of our laws and assume the duties that belong solely to the president of the United States.
judges are trying to take away the power given to the president to keep our country safe and it's not a good thing. But I I hope for the sake of our country that the Supreme Court is going to save this because we have to do something. These people are just looking to destroy our country.
Nothing will stop me in the mission to keep America safe again. It's very simple. Keep America safe again. And our first 100 days have also produced historic results in the battle to defeat Biden's inflation disaster and bring jobs and wealth back to America and bring them back to Michigan. Okay, we want to bring it back. As an example, since I took office, the cost of eggs is down 87%.
Now, right, you remember a few weeks ago before Thanksgiving, before we heard about it before I heard about it a long time ago before Thanksgiving, I heard about it and then I was hearing that I wasn't president. This guy was barely president. Nobody knew. Was he president? Who the hell was president? To this day, I say it was the one that operated the autopen, but who what do I know? But I was hearing about eggs and then all of a sudden we have a great election victory.
And my first week in office, they start screaming at me, "What about the price of eggs? Eggs? Eggs?" I said, "I've only been here for six days." I was there six days. I said, "What's wrong with eggs?" They said, "The price of eggs has gone through the roof and you won't be able to have them for Easter.
" So, I put a very capable Brooke Rollins, who's our wonderful commissioner of agriculture that you know in Michigan. I said, "Broo, I've only been here six days before I heard, maybe even less, maybe five, maybe four, but it was my first week." And I said, "Broo, you got to save me here. I'm getting killed about eggs.
What the hell's going on with eggs?" She said, "Well, you can't get them. The price is through the roof, and it looks like we're going to have a real problem for Easter." you're not going to have eggs. I said, Brooke, that doesn't sound politically viable to me. That doesn't sound good because nobody's going to believe me when you get out there that it's Sleepy Joe Biden's fault.
So, Brooke, you got to get going, Brooke, please. And she did a great job. And you had so many eggs for Easter and your price was down 87% from that point. Prices are coming way down. You know, the fake news doesn't say it. They said he pledged. Now, I pledged state orders. I pledged all sorts of things, but they said he pledged to bring prices down. Well, that's what I've done.
They're trying to say the prices have gone up. Your energy, your car, your gasoline, and they have three states this week, a couple of days ago, that were $1.98 a gallon. So, gasoline prices are down by a lot. Energy prices are down. Mortgage rates actually just went down. Prescription drug prices just saw their largest monthly decline ever recorded.
How about that? Remember what you heard? Prescription drug prices just took the biggest plunge ever since they've recorded the prices, which have basically gone up except for my four years. They did pretty well, but uh we got to know that system. The system is a bad system, but they just took the biggest uh dive ever in the history of prescription drug prices. Think of that.
That's a big thing. I got to say it again and again because they will never tell you that. The fake news will never tell you that. Grocery prices have gone down. Everything's gone down. And yet, I saw this person on MSDNC, which I think is probably even worse than CNN. It's probably worse. probably worse than CNN.
But I saw this this horrible horrible anchor. How these people get jobs? I wouldn't hire them to do the most menial of chores. But I saw this person. He campaigned on bringing prices down. Every price has gone down. What am I going to do? I mean, think of it. Gasoline was almost $4 not so long ago. And now, Mike, we just hit 198 in a lot of states.
Think of it. and they're saying and and you know what and inflation is basically down and interest rates came down despite the fact that I have a Fed person who's not really doing a good job but I won't say that. I want to be very nice. I want to be very nice and respectful to the Fed. You're not supposed to criticize the Fed.
You're supposed to let him do his own thing. But I know much more than he does about interest rates. Believe me, core inflation has reached the lowest rate in four years. And last month, we had the largest drop in consumer prices since the pandemic. This is all done in a 100 days. Think of that. This is all done in a 100 days.
But when you watch the fake news, you see fake polls. Again, they poll Democrats Republican. Democrats aren't going to say, "I'm going to vote for Trump." And we still got 45 44%. But on the legitimate polls, I think we're in the 60s. I really I think we're in the 60s or 70s or something. In three months, we have created 350,000 jobs. Think of that.
For the first time in recent memory, job gains for nativeorn Americans now exceed job gains for foreign workers. This is for the first time and nobody even knows when. Americans now are doing better than foreign workers. How about that? I mean, that's okay. I want the foreign I want everyone to do well.
But that's okay. And to curb inflation, we're cutting a record number of job killing regulations. We beat in the four-year first administ which was a tremendous success. We cut more regulations than any president in history, including uh two-term presidents, including Roosevelt, who was more than a two-term president.
We cut more regulations than any president in history in one term and now our second term. And you know, I don't know why it was so important to win because they used to say the fake news, to be a great president, you have to serve two terms. So now we're going to serve two terms. Now they've taken that one. Cross. Right. Right. Dr.
Oz, cross that one off. Cross that one off. No, they say it all the time. When I was out, they say, "Well, they go out. Thank you. Thank you. But we've ended the radical left. Well, we actually already served three, but if you count, but remember, I like the victories. I like the three victories, which we absolutely had. I just don't like the results of the middle term. The results.
I don't want those results, John. I don't want those results. What results? What a disgrace. If we would have had this group for another year, we wouldn't have a country left. I really mean it. I don't think we would have had a country left. And now we're respected all over the world. They're coming from all over the world to see your president. They're coming from India.
They're coming from France. They're coming from Spain. Yeah. They're coming from China, too. Yeah. They're coming from China. They're coming from all over the world to see your president. They want to make a deal. They want to make a deal. And you know, we'll make deals, but we don't have to.
We are the ones that have the product. We are the ones at the United States. They want a piece of our product. We can just set the price. But I want to be respectful and I want to be nice. But if it takes too long, I'll just set a price. Say you could buy or you don't have to buy. We lost, think of this, we lost billions and billions of dollars a day.
Billions, not millions, billions of dollars a day. And under Sleepy Joe Biden, what's better, Crooked Joe or Sleepy Joe? Ready? A poll. A free poll. Cuz these pollsters are so corrupt. I This is a real poll. We're going to poll Crooked Joe or Sleepy Joe. Ready? What's What's a better name for us to call him? Sleepy Joe or Crooked Joe? That's I'm not surprised this happens.
I sort of loved Sleepy Joe, you know, it just had a nice ring to it cuz he had one ability I didn't have. He goes to the beach, right? And he could fall asleep or a cottage drooling out of the side of his mouth and he'd be sleeping within minutes. carrying the aluminum chair, you know, the kind that's meant for old people and children to carry.
It weighs like about four ounces and he couldn't get his feet out of the sand. And he'd sleep, he'd fall in this thing and with it and he'd have, you know, he's president, so you'd have cameras. He'd be in a bathing suit. Somebody convinced him that he looks great in a bathing suit. He's 82 years old.
Carrie Grant didn't look great in a bathing suit when he was 82. You don't look great. you know, at some point you you have other assets, okay? But that's not real. But he'd he'd go and he'd walk in the sand and he'd fall into that thing and within seconds he was sleeping. I'd be tossing and turning and scheming and thinking and saying, "How am I going to beat China? How am I going to stop the war with Russia and Ukraine?" This guy could fall asleep with cameras blazing, right? Not too many cameras were blazing, but enough were blazing that you saw it. I thought
it was a great ability that he had, actually. We've ended the radical left war on American energy. We've stopped their crusade on coal. Did you see what I did the other day? Clean, beautiful coal. I said, you're not allowed to use the word coal unless you say clean, beautiful coal. So, you have guys getting up, Department of Energy.
We have great people at Department of Energy. They talk about clean, beautiful coal. You know, China uses coal. They're opening up a coal plant every week, a massive coal plant. But we're not allowed to use it. But now we are because last week I gave it absolute total approval. And you know what? I don't give approval to those stupid windmills that go round and round and round.
And we've ended the Green Dew scam. We've reopened Anoir, the greatest drilling site anywhere in the world in Alaska, and implemented the new energy policy of the United States. You know what it is? We have a policy. It's called drill, baby drill. That's our policy. That's our policy, Michael. Right. Great Michael Watley, head of the Republican party. He's done a good job.
him and Laura, they took the party by storm, right? He had but he had a good candidate, but had a couple of good candidates, didn't he? Michael's been incredible, actually. Michael Watley, North Carolina. He watched in in 2020. He did so good for me in, you know, he was in North Carolina. He did so great. What's the problem over there? What's the problem? Is that a radical left lunatic? He's just a child.
All right, get him out. Yeah. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, ma'am. I thought it was a guy. Thank you. And she now has to go home to her mother who's a big Trump fan. Her mother's watching. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I I said he and it's a she. I'm sorry. To keep my promise to the great state of Michigan, I terminated Joe Biden's insane electric vehicle mandate where you were mandated to buy an electric vehicle.
You were mandated within just a few years to buy an electric vehicle. How about that? And you know what? They're great, but people don't. Not everybody wants them. You got to be able to buy a hybrid, a gasoline powered car. You can buy lots of different cars, but you can't be mandated to do anything. And I've already proudly imposed a 25% tariff on all foreign automobiles.
Any any foreign car like they do, Todd. This is going to create more jobs in this state and this country. And to help these auto makers bring their factories home as rapidly as possible, I've just signed an executive order to give partial tariff rebates to any company that assembles its cars right here in the USA.
In other words, in other words, if they can't make it in time, because they have to do it here, otherwise they have I'm giving them a little bit of a break, right? They took in parts from all over the world. I don't want that. I want them to make their parts here, but I gave them a little bit of time. It's 15% and then 10% of the parts. So, it's not so bad.
Somebody would say, "Oh, well, that's a change in part." It's not. It's called a little flexibility. The guys were crying. They love it. Everything's good. But just in case we can't get everything in time, we gave them a little bit. So, it's 15% of the parts and then it's 10% of the parts.
We give them a little time before we slaughter them if they don't do this right. They're going to make so much money. They're going to have so many jobs. No, but jobs are way up. Jobs are way up. We're pleased to be joined tonight by Brian Panbecker. Do you know who that is? Of the auto workers for Trump. And Brian is a union guy. Loves the unions.
Loves everything. But he knew that Trump was right. Brian, come up here. Brian, I got to see Brian. Look at the arms in this guy. Look at the arms. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President. It's a great honor to be here on your 100th day in office of your second term.
And I just want to remind you of something I told you at one of your last rallies before the election. I've got it on video. I've watched it dozens of times at home. After I was able to speak, I turned to you and I said, "Mr. President McComem County is going to win Michigan for you. And that's exactly what happened. We had a margin of victory of 70,000 votes in this county alone. Thank you, Mcome County.
You know, I met President Trump eight years ago in Novi and uh we had never met before. And as I was stepping towards him backstage to get my picture taken, I knew I only had 10 15 seconds to say something to him before we got our pictures. Fortunately, my son was standing behind me. So, I've got a witness to this. And I said, "Mr.
Trump, we've got the keys wait to the White House waiting for you in Mcome County." and he kind of chuckled. He said, 'Oh yeah, how's that? And I said, 'Well, Mcome County is the home of the Reagan Democrats. If you come to Mcome County and you ask for their support and you get it, you might win Mcome County big enough to carry the whole state of Michigan.
And that's exactly what he did. So, I want to say thank you to the auto workers, everybody who works in the automotive field, the suppliers, every one of you, the truck drivers. Thank you so much for supporting the greatest president in our lifetimes. Now, I've got a little uh business announcement I want to make. I hope the president doesn't mind.
But when I was backstage with him earlier and got my picture taken, I said, "Mr. President, I've got a deal that you can't refuse." And he said, "What's that?" And I said, "Well, I'm writing a book and it's going to be about my political journey. I've been involved in some things here in Michigan, conservative causes like right to work and the Michigan civil rights initiative.
" and and I said, um, you have a publishing company, Winning Team Publishing. It's run by Don Jr. and his partner. I said, I'll agree to use your publishing company if you agree to write the forward to my book. He stuck out his hand and said, "I'll do it." That's how you negotiate with the best negotiator in the world.
So listen, I got one last thing to say. All of us have a job to do. Number one, we have to win the 2026 elections. It has to happen. Shri Danadar, that lunatic Democrat from Detroit, is already threatening to impeach President Trump if they get the majority back. But luckily, right now, we've got good people in Congress like Congressman John James over here who are stopping that from happening. But listen up.
So, we got to get out and and we don't have any time to waste. We got to start talking to our friends, our neighbors, our family, our co-workers. The the campaign for 2026 starts tomorrow. We've got to win that election. So, the work is not over. The work has just begun. November 5th was not the end.
It was the beginning of the golden age. And let's all let's all tell President Trump how much we support what he's done the first 100 days in office. Oh, yeah. I forgot there's one other thing I wanted to say in front of all these thousands of people to President Trump. President Trump, I love you. That's great. Thank you. Good. Good man. He's a great guy.
You know, he was with me from day one. 2015 before 2016. He was there from day one. He got it. He said, "We're losing our car industry." That's what he really cared about. He lo He just said, "I had so many friends. They were laid off. It's horrible. They lay us off like it's nothing." And the business went to China.
It went to Japan. Went to all countries all over the world. They're laying us off, sir. Then he said, "We can solve that." I told him, "We can solve that so fast." He's one of the early people that got it. And we've solved it. We're going to be doing numbers that nobody's ever believed. We have We'll be the number one in the world again.
Nobody can believe it because we have been beaten up so badly by these countries that have rigged the whole thing. They they fight like hell. They're smart. Their product is good, but our product's going to be a lot better. We're going to do something that nobody believes and he saw it right at the beginning.
So, I appreciate it, Brian. And he was there at the I love the guys from the beginning. I love those early guys. Those guys are right there. They were there from the beginning, too. No, you you're going to see numbers and you're already seeing them. Look, you know, we have many Hondas coming in and they're coming in.
They can't We let them build their cars here. We don't want them to build them in Japan. We love Japan. We don't want them building them in Japan. We want them to build them here. We want China to build them in here. We want them all to build them right in here. That's what they've done to us for 40 years.
And they've drained us. Now we're doing it to them at a better level than they ever dreamed possible to further rebuild the industrial bedrock of our country. I've imposed 25% tariffs on foreign aluminum and steel. It's keeping our steel mills going. I did that. If I didn't do that with steel in the first uh my first term, we wouldn't have a steel mill in the United States right now and everybody knows that.
I did it for washing machines, too, by the way. That's why I asked the people at Whirlpool. They were going to close. They were in deep trouble. I did it because they were dumping machines. I did a 50% tariff. Was going to raise it to 100%. They didn't even have to bother. They became a tremendously successful company overnight.
They were ready to close. They came to me with tears in their eyes in my office early on first term and uh we're doing it now at levels never seen before and it the results are going to be even better even better because we've been abused by friend and foe and in many cases friend has abused us more so than foe on trade.
So I want to just let you know you're going to be very proud of this country very soon. And with my China tariffs we're ending the greatest job theft in the history of the world. China's taken more jobs from us than any country has ever taken from another country. And that doesn't mean we're not going to get along. We'll get along with China.
I mean, the tariff now is at 145%. So essentially, they said that's a big difference between that and zero. But I think it's going to work out. They want to make a deal and they're going to we're going to make a deal, but it's going to be a fair deal. It's not going to be a deal that we lose a trillion dollars a year like they did with Biden. That guy was so bad.
He was so bad under Biden. And remember this, we were losing $5 billion dollar a day on trade. And now we're making money. We're actually making money instead of Do you know what? Five billion. Think of that, Mike. Five. How many pillars you have to make to lose five billion dollars? You can make them for a thousand years.
No, we were losing five billion dollars a year. Now we've got it where we're making money. And the tariffs haven't even really kicked in. The 25% on cars have. But you know what that means? That means that you're going to make the cars. We don't need the cars from outside. When they say, "Oh, sir, we want to send you a lot of cars.
" I said, "We really don't want your cars. We really don't want We want to make our own cars." That includes Canada. That includes Mexico who have taken tremendous a tremendous amount of our business. Canada's taken off a tremendous like 10 12%. Mexico is 32%. They took 32% of our car production. We don't want them to have that.
We want that. Why are we giving it to them? Why are we subsidizing Canada $200 billion a year? Why are we subsidizing Mexico for $300 billion a year? There's no reason for it. I'm proud to be uh the president for the workers and not the outsourcers. A president who stands up for Main Street, not Wall Street.
You know, I like Wall Street. I like Wall Street. I have a gorgeous, beautiful building on Wall Street, 40 Wall Street. Anybody? You want a little space? I'll get you some space real quickly. Now, I've got one of the most beautiful buildings in the world on Wall Street. But I still like Main Street because you're Main Street.
I want Main Street over Wall Street. And we uh want to protect the middle class, not the political class. That's all. I haven't done this very long. We want to protect We want to protect our people. You know, this is the greatest when you think about this. Look, here we are. It's not even like election.
It's after the election and you have crowds like this. And at TAM, we're going to do the commencement at uh University of Alabama. And they just called and they said, "This going to be the biggest crowd we've ever had for we've never had a crowd like this." And I'm doing it at West Point. And they called and said the same thing. We love West Point.
We love University of Alabama. We love Alabama. You know how what I want Alabama by? like uh almost 50 points. So when they called me to say, "Would you like to do the commencement?" I said, "Okay, I'll do it." But they're going to have the biggest crowd they ever had by maybe four or five times. They told me, "Thanks for all of the things that we've done into our policies.
Trillions of dollars are now pouring into the United States because of common sense." Just common sense. Apple, great company, was building everything in China. And now they just announced that they're spending $500 billion dollar to invest in America, not in China. My friend Jensen from Nvidia, they're spending, you know what Nvidia is? They're spending $500 billion.
TSMC, the biggest chip maker in the world by far from Taiwan. They're spending $200 billion dollar in the United States. Amazon $21 billion. Johnson and Johnson $55 billion. The Mac $20 billion. Merc Stalantis, General Motors are putting in billions and billions of dollars and many other companies.
And as a result of our policies, for the first time in modern history, more Americans believe that our country is headed in the right direction than the wrong direction. They have a poll, a crazy poll, probably a fake poll, too. So, I don't know. I don't care. But first time ever in I think ever that they're saying the country is headed in the right direction.
Has never happened before. I don't know why, but we've accomplished more in three months than most administrations accomplished in four years or even eight years. And we're just getting started. Believe me, we're just getting started. We're pleased to be joined by some great people. A person that I number one I have so much confidence in him.
They the fake news is after him. Really after him. But he's a tough cookie. They don't know how tough he is. Secretary of Defense Pete Heg. Pete. Wow, that's pretty good. How are the hoodies doing? Not too good, right? Not our new administrator of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, somebody that everybody knows, but this guy, you know, the show was a big success, but sometimes it hurts your image to have a television show.
He's the top. I mean, he went to Harvard. I shouldn't even mention that anymore because that used to be a good thing. today. It doesn't mean much, but he went to University of Pennsylvania Medical School. Top student, top doctor, top everything. One of the smartest guys in medicine, also a big star, Dr. Meett Oz.
Dr. Oz. Thank you, doctor. Thank you. A man who waited today just came here. He was all sweaty and grimy. I said, "What the hell happened?" He ran into the building because he wanted to vote in Congress. And I hear we passed the vote, John James, by a lot. Right. And thank you for making it here. He wanted he had a vote.
I said, John, do me a favor. Stay and vote. We're voting essentially on the big beautiful that gorgeous big beautiful bill. I said, you know, I want you there badly, but you got to vote, please. So, thank you very much, John. Good job. Michigan House Speaker Matt Hall. Matt, thank you. Thank you, Matt. Michigan Senate Republican Leader Eric Nesbet. Thank you, Eric.
Thank you very much. Michigan GOP Chair Jim Runstead. Thank you, Jim. Good job. Nice time. Thank you, Jim. Great job. One of my favorite people. I mean, we just had such success. You know, we had uh so many votes stolen in 2020. And then this guy came in and they didn't steal them from his state, North Carolina. Told you.
But they didn't steal them. He had 601 lawyers and they had lawyers at every voting booth. And I said, "Who is that guy that did so well?" Because we won the state. Other states, you know, they inched us out and, you know, at the end they inches, they just inch uses out crooked as hell. But this guy didn't let that happen.
His name is Michael Watley, North Carolina. and now he's the head of the Republican party RNC and he's great and I must tell you he worked with a great woman my daughter-in-law Laura who was unbelievable who's got a very successful television show that was a tremendous combin that was a very important combination also the great and you see him on television he's unbelievable Stephen come up here fast the great Stephen Miller do we like Stephen who Come here, Stephen.
I love this guy. I love this guy. There is nobody smarter or tougher than Stephen Miller. Stephen, say who's enjoying a hundred golden days of America. President Trump has achieved the most secure border in American history. He's fighting violent crime. He's fighting the drug cartels. He's cutting your taxes. He's cutting wasteful spending.
He's draining the swamp. He's standing up to the radical left. He's standing up to the communists. And he's making America stronger than it's ever been. President Trump will never stop fighting for you, your children, and your family. And President Trump will make sure that in this country, not illegal aliens, not criminals, not gang bangers, but American citizens come first, last, and always. Thank you.
And thank you, President Trump, for being the greatest president in American history. He's great. This guy, he is something special. and he's been with us right from day one. Right from day one, Stephen's been there, right? He's been great. A man who put on about 928 rallies for me. We didn't have we didn't have a glitch. Justin Caparell.
Justin, thank you. Wherever you are, he's probably backstage working. We did we did over 900 of these. Thank you, Justin. And Margot Martin. Does anyone know Margot? Beautiful Margot. I call her the world's greatest photographer. Where is Margot? Margot is great. Where are you, Margot? And she's very shy, actually. She's both beautiful and shy.
Thank you. Where? Where? Margot, come up here, Margot. Come up. Come up. You got to This is the most beautiful. Now, I'm not allowed to say this. It's the end of my political career, but I'm going to say it anyway. She's the most beautiful photographer in the world. I don't know if she's the best, but she's the most beautiful.
Trump 2028. Anybody? People love Margot. And how about Caroline? How's Caroline doing? How is our Caroline doing? Caroline has taken the world by storm. She's taken it. And you know, we have a a man here that I don't know, but he's defending me all the time on CNN. And he defends me really well, but he can't go too far because if he goes too far, he'll get fired.
I said, "You're amazing. You can take it right to the edge." And he really does a good job. He's not allowed to go any further. He would be off, you know, if he really went totally crazy, which he'd like to do. But I think he's terrific. Scott Jennings. Where's Scott? Where are you, Scott? Come here, Scott.
This guy really, I've watched him for years. I don't know him, but he likes Trump. Come here, Scott. Oh, CNN. This is the end of Scott. Who cares? Don't worry. We'll take care of you, Scott. Scott Jennings. Really great. Thank you. Thank you. Michigan. We were flying in here today and I said, "Look at these farms. I got to get a farm in Michigan cuz when you own as many libs as I do, you got to put a place to put them all.
" Thank you all very much. Thank you, Scott. And I also want to thank the rest of the Michigan Republican delegation for all the work they do in Congress and who are back in Washington working on the big beautiful bill. The big we're going to name it, I think, the big beautiful bill. In a 100 days, I've taken more than 1,000 executive actions and I could recite our accomplishments all night long.
And by the way, did you just see what I did? Straws. I wiped out the paper straw. Little thing. These are the little things. your sink. You ever try buying a new sink and no water comes out? Your showerheads, your toilets, the whole thing. It's a disaster. We now have it so you can have as much water as you want because it's not an environmental problem.
You have areas they can't get rid of their water and yet they have they put restrictors on them. You used to take them off, but now you can't because they're welded in. But now you don't have to worry about that because we've opened up your faucets and we've opened up especially me. I don't like taking a shower where the water goes drip, drip, drip onto my luxurant hair.
I need a lot of water. I need everything I can get. I don't need to be under a shower trying to get water to come out of that damn thing. So, we've opened up the shower heads, the faucets, the toilets, the washing machines that don't give you water. All of that stuff has been opened up and we're giving you gas ovens, gas stoves if you'd like.
No more electric. You can have electric if you want. I have a lot of friends. They like gas better. You're supposed to sell your gas stove or get it. I don't know who do you sell it to. Maybe another country because we're the only country that would be so stupid to that. But uh the stoves now you can have gas stoves all you want.
Put four of them in your kitchen. I couldn't care less. It's all common sense. People were so angry about that. Remember they were all angry. Get rid of your gas stove. You have to go to electric. There's something they have with electric that's amazing. And by the way, Elon makes a great car, but not everybody's going to want it.
You know, they all say, "Oh, well, Trump is maybe he's under the under the thumb of Elon." Do you think Elon was happy about ending the all electric mandate? I don't think he was too happy, but he's a great guy, you know, honestly. Never said a thing. He says, "Let me just compete fairly." By the way, it's not fair what they've done to him, too.
That is a disgrace. That is a disgrace. But he's a great guy, and he's really helped us. And, you know, they've saved $150 billion dollars on waste, fraud, and abuse. Doge. So, we want to thank him. He's a incredible guy. anybody that can land a rocket ship. I saw this thing come in. I said, "You got to be kidding. This rocket's coming in.
" You know, most of them go right into the ocean. But he lands it. I was on the phone with somebody talking and I saw this thing coming in. It's spinning out of control, coming down. It's all burning. It's on fire. Looks like hell. I said, "Well, just another rocket going into the ocean." And then all of a sudden, you see the fire pouring out of the engines and it starts to slow up slow. Then it's straight.
Then it starts moving over a little bit. Then I say, "Oh no, it's hitting the gandry. It's gonna hit, you know, and the engines go straightens it out and it gets hugged like you hug your beautiful little baby, right?" And I said, "Who the hell did that?" It was Elon. and he told me, "You don't have a space program if you have to drop a billion dollar machine into the water every time you fly.
You have to save those suckers." So, he does. He's he's an amazing guy and he's a great American and he loves our country. He loves you. And uh he's paid he's paid a big price to help, but I have a feeling it's going to end up being good for him. Actually, I really do. I established the new presidential commission to make America healthy again chaired by our new secretary of health and human services, Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
, he's doing a good job, Dr. Oz, right? He's doing a good job. And he's a little bit different, but I want to tell you, he's a great guy. He's a great guy and he loves this country. Just last week, Bobby announced that we're banning eight major artificial dyes from our food supply. Sounds good to me.
And on day one, I created that very right right now very successful Department of Government efficiency headed by Elon. That was a big thing doing that. I mean, the numbers are really incredible. Doge. So, it was a very big thing. We terminated the left-wing money laundering scam known as USAID. How about the money that was going out? How about the money that was going out? Billions and billions.
They were giving individual people billions of dollars. Can you believe it? People that had nothing. They got a billion. They got one got two billion. Two billion for the environment. Had a $100 in the bank. They got $2 billion. Not two million. You know, two million would have been a lot.
$200,000 would have been a lot, but it would have been fine. Two billion dollars. And we directed all federal workers to return to the office in person or unfortunately they're fired. You're fired. You know, some of these guys got their golf handicap way down during the so-called time where they're supposed to be working at home.
You know, they weren't working at home. Who the hell would work at home? How do you work at home? They're terrible. And we, you know, we found a lot of them where they had second jobs. They were just taking us for a ride. They're all taking us for a ride. The foreign countries were really taking us for a ride, both on military and on trade.
But we stopped it and we're stopping it. I withdrew from the unfair and ridiculous Paris climate accord where we were paying trillions of dollars. We would have spent numbers like you wouldn't believe. And China wouldn't have spent anything. Russia wouldn't have spent anything. India wouldn't have spent. But we would have spent over a trillion dollars.
I withdrew from the corrupt World Health Organization where where we were paying $470 million and China was paying with a population quite a bit larger than ours. Thank you. Where let's the problem with us. We have no idea what size our population. They allowed so many people on under Biden. But let's assume it's 325 million. China's 1.4 billion.
We were paying $470 million and China was paying $39 million and China was running the whole show. So I said, "No, thank you." I withdrew. They offered me to sign up at 39 million. I still said no because it was sort of scammy. I didn't like it. And Biden came back in and he signed up. And they knew we could have signed up for 39 million or less.
He came back in and he signed up for the same as what they were paying before, almost $500 million. Now, that's a lot of money, but it's nothing compared to the trillions of dollars that they waste. But that's the way it is. They know they can sign up for less. They don't even care. It's like they don't want to have the conversation. And you're talking about a $450 million difference.
But they came up right in the first week. He said, "No, no, we're going right back in." Okay, I can understand that. But you go in for 39 million. they could make a deal for 39 million. They signed up for $472 million and I withdrew from the anti-American UN Human Rights Council, which is totally disgusting.
In three months, my administration has brought home 46 American hostages and citizens detained abroad. We paid nothing. We don't pay. We don't pay. You know, if you pay, those kidnappings go way up. We don't pay. Every time Biden brought people back, he'd pay six billion. Six billion. Six billion. Three times they brought back three hostages.
Oh, how is it? Well, I think it's a fair deal. What do we pay? $6 billion. Wait a minute. For three people? Six billion. Six billion dollars. It's not right. I mean, it's just not right. They have no idea. Honestly, grossly incompetent, stupid people. More than Biden brought home in four years. We brought more back in just a matter of weeks than Biden brought home in years.
And he paid a fortune and we paid nothing. We got Mexico to turn over 29 of the biggest cartel leaders in their country. And we're charging Mexico and Canada and China big tariffs because of the fact that they've allowed fentinol to come in and poison our country. They're paying a lot of money for that.
And because of that, you'll watch, it's going to stop. It's already slowing down. Within six weeks, we also apprehended the terrorists responsible for the attack that killed 13 American service members known as Abby Gate. I got to know them. I got to know those families very well. They're devastated during the disastrous withdrawal from Afghanistan and brought him home.
I mean, we brought uh this guy home to America. We got the guy that did it. We got him. They were looking for years, but we got him. It took us to get him. We got him on the in the first month. Brought him home to face Justin. And it was that gross incompetence that probably led Putin to go in and attack Ukraine because they were never going to that was never going to happen.
If I were president, the Ukraine Russia war would have never ever happened. Not even a little chance. We have ended the weaponization of law enforcement and fired Joe Biden's handpicked cro these are proime US attorneys except if it's a political person like me. You know, I was under investigation more than the late great Alons Capone.
Al Capone was the greatest gangster of them all. If he had dinner with you and if he didn't like you, you were dead. You were a dead person. You'd be under a foundation somewhere in a nice big building or sports center growing up. And I spent far more time under investigation than Alons Capone. How about that? You like that? I didn't like that. I didn't like it.
We removed senior FBI officials who were corrupt and misdirected the resources they sent to SWAT teams after grandmothers and J6 hostages. What they did to those J6 hostages and they did nothing to the people that took over Portland and took over Seattle. They literally took over a big portion of Seattle or in Minnesota, Minneapolis, you remember that disaster where they said, "No, this is a peaceful rally.
" the CNN lunatic anchor, the guy has about the personality of an ant. This is not a man meant for television. He said, he said, "No, the rally is quite peaceful." Then he got hit with a brick or something. And over his shoulder, the entire skyline of Minneapolis was burning. You remember that one? The entire skyline was burning. And I have to be careful because that gentleman right there, one of the greatest purchases of advertising in the history of the world, Mike Lindell.
There has never been a better purchaser. He comes from Minnesota. No, congratulate. He's the greatest purchaser of ads in history. If he would have bought my ads, I could have had 10 times more ads on. There's never been Is there any station that doesn't have a pillow ad in? But he's great and he's doing great and he's got a beautiful new wife and all that stuff and I'm proud.
Look at him holding hands. They're still holding hands. I'm very proud of That's nice. Usually by this time usually in a lot of people I know Mike by this time it's over. It's over. Look at you holding hands. I love that. I saw that. I pardoned hundreds of political prisoners who had been grossly mistreated.
We created a brand new DOJ task force on anti-Christian bias. It's a big problem. I stripped the security clearances of the disgraced intelligence agents who lied about Hunter Biden's laptop from hell. Remember the laptop from hell? Remember the laptop from hell? When you had the 51 agents, they said, "Oh, Russia did it.
Russia Russia did it. Russia did everything. Russia did it. And it was all like horrible, disgusting stuff. You hadn't seen the worst of it, but it truly is the laptop. By the way, a very brilliant reporter for the New York Post wrote a book called The Laptop from Hell. You ought to read that book. It is really, it tells you the facts.
Okay? It tells you the facts. Mivine, the great the great Mr. Vine, she wrote an amazing book actually, The Laptop from Hell. We also terminated the clearances of the Biden crime family and Joe Biden himself because he's corrupt. And I banned all government censorship and restored free speech in America. We have free speech.
We didn't have free speech. I ended all of the lawless so-called diversity, equity, and inclusion all across the entire federal government and the private sector. And I made it the official policy of the United States government that there are only two genders, male and female. And the really easy one, this was the easiest one I had.
I banned men from competing in women's sports. You know, they always say that's an 8020 issue. No, I think about a 973 issue. I also proudly ban the use of puberty blockers and other chemical and surgical. Right. All these mutilations of our minor youth, I banned it all. I signed executive orders to abolish critical race theory and transgender insanity from our schools and from our military.
We fired the woke boards of visitors at our militarymies. We have great people running our militarymies now. And I've directed the reinstatement of patriots expelled from our military by the Biden vaccine mandate with full back pay. After years of missed targets, our military suddenly has the best recruiting numbers in 30 years.
Every branch is setting records. Don't think of that. Six months ago, you and I were reading that nobody wanted to join the military. Right now, we've just set a record of recruitment that stopped. We have a waiting list of people that want to go into our military. And we have a waiting list, including for police and firefighters, because our country has spirit again.
We have spirit. Our country has great spirit again. Last month, I signed a historic executive order to begin the process of eliminating the federal department of education and send education back to Michigan. We're going to send it back to our states, right? We're going to send it back to our states to run.
I mean, how the hell bad can we do? We're like in last place. They do badly, you're going to do better. They're going to do great, though. I think they're going to do great. We're s I'm very proud of it. Linda McMahon, by the way, is doing a phenomenal job. And I signed an order making English the official language of the United States of America.
I order the release of all remaining files related to the assassinations of presidents John F. Kennedy, Robert Kennedy, and Martin Luther King Jr. And they're all out there. And I made myself very unpopular in Mexico by renaming the Gulf of Mexico the Gulf of America. And we are restoring the name of a great president, William McKinley, to Mount McKinley in Alaska.
It's a very good president. And you Italians are going to love me because just yesterday, I brought back Columbus Day in America, especially for Italian Americans who were so badly treated by its removal. I also signed an order to require proof of citizenship to vote in American electors. That was easy. And the Democrats fought me in that.
Think of it. Why would they want no voter ID? Because they want to cheat. Why would they want to have no proof of citizenship? We don't want it. We trust everybody. No, they want to cheat. That's all they want to do. Think of that. No voter ID. In Michigan, you must never allow rank choice voting to be here.
Never. We've done this all in 14 weeks. That's one. Remember that 100 days we've done all of the things that I named and a lot more and we're counting and it's going to be get it's going to be better. Wait till you see the results of some of the things that we're doing in the coming weeks and months.
We will pass the largest tax cuts in American history and that will include no tax on tips, no tax on social security, no tax on overtime. It's called the one big beautiful bill and it will be the biggest bill ever passed in our country's history. It will include the biggest tax cuts, regulation cuts, military supremacy, and just about everything else.
We will cut more than $1 trillion in wasteful and unnecessary spending. And in the next fiscal year, it'll all be done. We're going to have something that you won't even believe. We will end inflation, slash prices. We've already ended inflation, raise wages, and give you the greatest economy in the history of the world. That's already happening.
With our tax bill, the average families take-home pay will be at least $5,000 more than it was just a couple of months ago. We will always protect Medicare and Social Security for our great seniors with no cuts. And we will defend Medicaid for those great people that are in need. House Republicans are working to invest more money in Medicaid than we spent today.
The only thing we're going to cut is the corruption and the crooks that take advantage of some of the illegal schemes. So, we want to preserve Medicaid for the most vulnerable for our kids, pregnant women, the poor and disabled Americans. We will fully and permanently secure our border. We will make the largest ever investment in US military and build the Golden Dome Missile Defense Shield that's going to all protect us so we live a long and beautiful life.
It's going to be made in Michigan and it's going to be made right here in the USA. And one hour ago, I just made a speech at Selfridge Air Force Air National Guard Base announcing that we are saving it, keeping it open, including thousands of jobs with a brand new state-of-the-art F15s, which are coming to South.
And we will crush violent crime and give our police the support, protection, resources, and respect they so dearly deserve. I will defend religious liberty and I will defend the right to keep and bear arms. We will celebrate the 250th anniversary of America's founding in 2026. And we will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag.
And one day soon, American astronauts will plant the flag on the planet Mars. That's going to happen very soon. Every single day of my administration will continue to live by the motto promises made. And you've seen it before. Promises kept. From Marquette to Midland, from Meno to Sageno, and from Lancing to right here in Mcome County, we stand on the shoulders of red-blooded Michigan patriots.
What great people. I love you, Michigan. who laid the railroads, worked the factories, tilled the field, forged the steel, fought the battles, and won the victories that built the Motor City and made this state into the pride of the America Midwest. And you know what? We're going to make it better than it ever was. It's already happening.
You see what's happening? Michigan is the state that gave us the assembly line, Mottown, Ford, General Motors, Chrysler, and put the world behind the wheel of an automobile. And under our leadership, we are making it greater every single day. And the automobile business in Michigan will soon, and it's going to happen really soon. It's already happening.
They're signing left and right because of my taxation and tariff policies which are policies of common sense and genius be bigger and stronger and better than ever before. It's going to get better than ever before. And it won't even be close. Companies will be pouring back into Michigan. It was hardworking patriots like you who built this country.
And on November 5th, 2024, it was hardworking patriots like you who saved our country. So, thanks to your help, your love, and your support, after 100 days back in the White House, America is a free, proud, and sovereign nation once more. And our magnificent destiny is closer than ever before. It's closer than ever before.
You have no idea how close it is. Our golden age has only just begun. We are one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. We will never give in. We will never give up. We will never back down. We will never ever surrender. We will fight, fight, fight. And we will win, win, win. Together, we will make America powerful again.
We will make America wealthy again. We will make America healthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. and we will make America great again. I love you, Michigan. I love you. Have a good time.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp