================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NAYhP_IN9iU
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English (auto-generated)
What's up, YouTube? Listen, family. I have an important video for you guys today. Jumping right into it. Your paychecks will be garnished for student loans beginning May 5th. Okay, May 5th is upon us in about a handful of days now. So, I'm breaking this now so that you guys can kind of be aware of what's to come. Quick question though, guys.
question coach got for you guys. Should everyone have to pay back their student loans? Why or why not? Should everyone have to pay back their student loans? Why or why not? Guys, I want to hear your thoughts on this and then I want to give you guys some guidance and some things I want you to know and how to navigate. Okay? Let me know.
Should everyone be required to pay back their student loan? Why or why not? Then let me know if you have student loans yourself, okay? We don't want just people speaking on a situation and you not even feeling any ramifications of having student loans cuz maybe you didn't go to college or maybe you you don't have loans or whatever.
Let me know if you have loans or not and your rationale for your situation. Okay? Let's keep it all the way authentic. All right? But do me a favor, guys. May 5th will be here before we know it. and they're gonna turn the faucet back on and so automatically it's just going to rev back up.
How many of you guys over the past, let's say, four years have took advantage of them being paused? Let me know that. Did anybody start driving for Uber, doing Door Dash, picking up any side hustles, or doing anything extra to kind of offset what's to come. Let me know how you were navigating. Okay, let me know if any of you paid off your student loans and you just said, "Man, I ain't dealing with this.
I'm getting this out the way. I'm on my financial journey right now and I ain't dealing with no type of loans and nothing that can hold me down and serve as baggage. I want that up off me." Let me know if that was the route you took. Or third, and finally, let me know if you say, "I'm not paying them back. My job don't pay enough.
the thing I went to school for, I ain't even working in that field. I don't have time or the means or the resources to pay it off. And I don't have no help. I don't have no family. I don't have no significant other. Therefore, it ain't getting paid off. Screw my credit. Screw what may happen. I'll just deal with the consequence. Let me know if that's where you fall.
Okay? Because man, the thing about the human race, we're nuanced people. And as a being, you are all wired differently. Okay? And so there's no right or wrong. You entitled to feel how you feel. Okay? But let me know. Should everyone have to pay back their student loans? Why or why not? Okay. Now, check this out.
Coach got this article for you. I'm going to read it to you because you guys might can't see it. What student loan borrowers need to know about involuntary collections. Okay. So, in an op-ed that was printed on Monday, the Secretary of Education, Linda McMahon, explained the education department's decision to resume involuntary collections of federal student loans that are in default.
Okay? So, if you in default, they coming. They come knocking on your door, they going to turn the faucet back on you. You going to see the money come out your account. Okay? Within weeks, borrowers should contact the government default resolution group to make a monthly payment, enroll in an incomedriven repayment plan, or sign up for loan rehabilitation.
So, them are some of the options you have to choose from if you do want to rectify the student loan situation. Okay? Borrowers who remain in default may eventually have their wages automatically garnished. Okay, what do you feel about having your wages garnished if you really and truly don't have the ability to pay? Let me know your thoughts on that.
Okay, share this with somebody that might need this today, guys. Okay, make sure you like and subscribe for me. What are your thoughts on having your wages garnished beginning May 5th if you are unable to pay your student loan back because you're in default? Okay, you're already struggling. Inflation is already high. Eggs is already $7.
Gas is already through the roof. If it hasn't been enough weight on you already, now they're talking about potentially garnishing your wages. Let me know how you feel and what the ramifications for you would be if something like that was to take place. Okay? See, check it out, guys. You have some options. Okay? Before they can just garnish your wage, you need to make sure you talk to your lender.
Okay? Don't ignore the phone call. Don't ignore the mail. Don't ignore the prompts. Pick up the phone, answer the phone, and have a conversation. What I noticed, guys, in all of these things when it comes to anything dealing with credit cards, student loans, anything in that realm, okay? If you just have a simple conversation, there are things you can work out that's in your favor that also appeases the person on the receiving end.
Okay? In this particular case, the federal government and the student loan department. Okay? And so, number one, don't run from accountability. Okay? Answer that phone or pick up the phone and call and get ahead of it or put some things in place. Okay? Two, if you can't see why what we do around here when we're talking about financial education, financial literacy, if you can't see the importance of that now more than ever, guys, this is one of those reasons.
This is one of those wakeup calls. No one is coming to save you. No one is coming to save you. That's why I need you to learn how to invest, trade, in order to build wealth in the stock market. I need you to really pick up what coach is putting down because some of what you learn, some of the life-changing things we do around here, some of that could have been geared towards coach, you help me pay off my student loan.
I done help people pay off their houses, pay for college, get out of debt, do all these wonderful things in life. But you know what? student loans is the same thing that that money could have been applied towards as well. Other debts you got, mortgage, leases, uh time shares, anything that you need, you can use proper trading to help you get up out of that that rut you might be in. Okay? Get from up under that rock.
All right? So, check it out, man. The borrowers need to know you have some power in this. You don't have to just lay down and lay idle and just let them come running rampid and garnishing your wages. Okay? You can you can take some necessary steps as well. So I want that to be first things first.
Secondly, in addition to you picking up the phone or you answering the phone and not running from accountability and then you establishing your own investments, your own means and ways of paying back what you may owe, okay? Or getting the the the the amount reduced, whatever it may be. The next thing you want to do is to make sure this doesn't generate a situation that disrupts your current livelihood and well-being.
Guys, it's important that you have resources around you. Whether that's people, whether that's access to services, whether that's something that can make sure you and your kids are able to stay afloat. What I want is to drive you and serve as a burning motivation that you don't let yourself get in this situation again.
Okay? I often say if you give them the power to feed you, you give them the power to starve you. Okay? And this is one of those things where the roose is coming back to hatch in terms of now they want to collect student loan payments. Okay? Now they want to garnish your wages. Guys, you have to get out in front of these things.
You have to be thinking about these things on the front end. Like, you know what? How about I just go to community college? How about I go to school for two years, keep my expenses low, get a trade, jump right into the workforce, do maybe the non-traditional route, which going to end up turning into the traditional route with the way the world has going and the way college enrollment is dropping because too many people are not benefiting from their degree, what they went to school for.
only thing they got to show is they got a lot of student loan debt. Okay? And so that's a whole another discussion, but we got to talk about those things because check it out. I am a proponent of education. I think it's the way you grow your mind. I think it's the way that you increase your independence and I think you develop a network that you can't find in any other medium in life than you do by going to college. Okay.
However, you got to know what the major in. I got I know cats that just to sound cool, they say they major in engineering and don't know nothing about engineering. So then they flunk out. They just wanted to sound good at Thanksgiving and on Christmas break. I know cast is talking about they majoring in business. Ain't never sold nothing. Ain't never started a business.
Don't know the first thing about business. But it sounds good to say, "Oh, I'm going to school for business. I'm going to school for business management. I'm going to school for business leadership." You don't know what none of that stuff is. You don't even know what to do. So, I see people use education in the wrong way, more as a flex versus going for something that going to render them the job that they actually want, the career that they're actually going to work in or something that they can even get through school
with. Okay? People many times make that mistake. Okay? Let me know if you were one of those ones. Okay? Or if you avoided that. But the point being is this guys, May 5th is the day, okay? Be on guard. Look out for anything to come in the mail. Look for any 1-800 number. Don't get scammed now.
You got to make sure you do your due diligence, okay? But answer that call or pick up the phone and call and get your affairs in order, okay? Because the last thing we want is your wages garnished and then it upsets the apple cart and then your life begins to fall apart and then more chaos ensues. Okay, that ain't what we want.
So stay on top of that for me guys. But understand this, the way out of all of this is to learning to take care of your affairs and take control of what you can control. Take care of your finances. Okay, the stock market and investing is the greatest vehicle for wealth creation. You have to play the right game in order to get out ahead because the way the system is designed and set up is not benefit or it's not intended for you to win.
And on top of that, nobody's coming to save you. So, it's all about what are you going to do? And that's why I show up every single day for you guys. strangely hell or snow to make sure you're hearing from somebody that actually cares, that actually want to see you win, but that actually want to see you figure this thing out.
But I'm here to help you navigate whatever those things may be. Okay, listen. Coach, get up out of here. It's been a good one, man. If you made money today, let me know down in the comments below. If you got student loans, let me know. But also, let me know if you feel like everyone should be required to pay them back.
Why or why not? Okay, but we make videos like this every day. So, if you like this one, make sure you check out the next one. Remember, mostly the end result if you consider the journey. Do me a favor. Don't forget to like, subscribe to the channel. Make sure you guys grab some free stocks using my link below.
And I'll catch you guys in the next one. Peace.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ykYyC5vJEUs
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
The question on everybody's mind right now is should they be buying today? After last week's runup off of the lows, we're getting that first initial pullback that I talked about that we would see Monday and Tuesday. We saw Nvidia come back a little bit. Is it the right time to buy? Are we still going to run up on Nvidia to around $120? People are still in a high level of fear.
Just a couple weeks ago, that was extreme fear and now it's been backing down to just good old-fashioned fear. But there is yet to return to this market. The fear of missing out. We're not feeling FOMO right now. People are still hedged and very, very cautious. I'm going to go into what the market looks like.
I'm going to recap something I said in my last video. We're going to look at some hot plays and we're going to talk about the number one driving catalyst for today and going into tomorrow, which is Microsoft's earnings. I'm going to give you guys the lines in the sand on that one. This is the Stocks with Josh show.
I appreciate you joining me. I appreciate you for smashing that like and for sharing this video with someone that you want to see begin to better understand the charts, Wall Street, hopefully make some money. We're doing it every single day. I share with you guys what I'm doing with my money. It's not a suggestion for you to buy, sell, or hold.
Hit that subscribe if you need more help understanding and trading these choppy markets. Guys, let's talk a little bit about who's making money and who's getting richer and what strategy they've employed. Talked a lot about it and many of you guys are in the exact same camp. But it does leave a question of how to handle things moving forward.
I'm talking about Warren Buffett strategy. This guys, you know the story, sitting on more cash than they ever have in the history of Birkshshire Hathaway, and they've yet to deploy it. Now, did they perfectly sell the top recently? No. They began to start unwinding their large position last year in 2024 when the market was still moving higher.
And I'm going to tell you, not only did they not sell everything at the top, they unwound slowly that massive position in Apple. They're also not going to perfectly time catching the bottom or catching the falling knife. They're going to begin to slowly add. What exactly are they doing and what lesson could you take from it right now? Well, they're not really trying to time the market.
They carried their portfolio prices higher through the good times. And when they got to the point that those good times were coming to an end and the market was largely going to move sideways or be very very choppy and have massive swings, when they understood that that was ahead of them and that the GDP was slowing down and the economy could over the course of the next uh year and a half begin to uh compress, then they got out. They got out.
Now they're holding this cash. And here's what I think they're going to do from past observations. When they are sure that the storm has passed, even though they might not perfectly catch the bottom, they're going to slowly get back in. And they're making money simply by rolling their large positions into bonds and other safer asset assets.
They're simply not exposing themselves to the chop and to the turmoil. They're just taking a break from the market. Now, there's a lot of people like myself who are cashed up and they're worried that they're not going to catch the bottom because we hit the bottom and I talked a lot about it.
The Magnificent 7 all got oversold. Things got really, really cheap. And I did tell everybody I am definitely going to nibble at these levels. But I didn't employ everything back again because I believe that there is still some pretty significant risk on the table and we have a situation. I've talked about it in the past.
We've got a debt problem and which will only get sorted out if the Fed gives a very dramatic cut. If the Fed gives a cut at the level that Washington needs, it likely would panic the market and we would see additional selling, which would simply mean that we have a lower low still to make in 2025. So, I took the time to outline it and I talked about the fact that between now and June, we're still trending higher cautiously.
There's going to be pullbacks, but in my opinion, all of those pullbacks may be worth taking a position on. They may be worth taking a position for a swing trade as I believe we're going higher. I gave the target of 120 on Nvidia. And today, I'm going to talk about Microsoft and my targets there.
Uh, but the bottom line is these are only swing trades for me. It's not necessarily long-term investing because I believe between now and June after we've gotten through all of corporate earnings, the risk is to the bears in this situation because together with decent corporate earnings, which we don't have them all yet. All we really have is Netflix, Tesla, and Google.
But the risk is to the bears because we could begin to see the tariff war get deescalated. We could see the Fed cut rates. And these types of things could cause the market to explode higher. So, I'm still of the mind frame that we're chopping up and pullbacks are worth trading to the upside. And between now and June, we're going to see a lot of new local highs or pivot tops.
Then after June through the summer, June and July, we're largely going to continue in distribution, which means we're going to move sideways. And then after that, we're going to begin to get more data, and we're going to see more of an impact of how much the tariff war really slowed the economy down.
And we're going to see Wall Street attempt to derisk in anticipation of that because I want to remind you guys that they trade in advance. So, they're going to begin to derisk, go down from these recent local pivot highs that I'm saying will occur sometime at the end of June, down another 15%, making a lower low. The big warning that I gave in that video is that a lot of retail people will completely fear the apocalypse and they'll expect a bigger drop, a a 20 or 30% drop from that pivot high and they're just simply not going to buy
that next dip. For me, that's when we've had a lot more time and a lot more data to process. And I believe that around that time is going to be another big buying opportunity for those who want to go long and put cash to work, not just for a swing trade, but for the next couple years.
So that's what I'm doing with my money, and that's how I believe the market's going to act moving forward. It's a reminder to a lot of people that get caught up day trading that the market often moves slower than they're thinking. between now and June chopping higher between June and July and the end of July and the summer chopping sideways between the end of the summer and the uh middle of the third quarter or the end of the third quarter.
We're going to see more selling pressure and then I think we'll see recovery again between October and the end of the year. And if you understand what I just outlined, you probably heard that largely this is going to be a very sideways and choppy year where we end up a little bit higher, maybe depending on how good that future data comes in to where we started.
And so this year is largely going to be a slightly up year to a flat year. and it's not going to be the apocalypse that the super bears hope for and may not be that super bullish uptrend. Don't be anxious about holding cash. I personally believe that with all of the dynamics that we have going on in the market, if it was just stagflation alone, which in my opinion has been pretty well established, that inflation is going to remain sticky and we're still dealing with the fact that the economy is not growing at the same rate that it had in 2023 and 2024. With all
of those factors in place along with the global supply chain broken as it is right now, the fact is 2025 is not going to be a huge growth year. So, expect sideways and buy the big dips, but we are not dipping right now. We're likely testing the top of the range. And I gave that to you guys on the spy at around 570.
And I've talked about minimums on Nvidia around 120. And today I'm going to give you a trade setup for Microsoft's earnings tonight. Before I do that, let me talk about the daily A+ trade setups that I provide the stocks with Josh Discord every single day. These are very simple. I provide a minimum of three about a half an hour before the market opens.
And these are the same trade setups that I take every day. Today I took Nvidia. It was a very easy win. As we broke above my breakout price, I took it up for a nice little 15%, not huge. I got in, I cashed out early. As you guys know, I often take a larger position, looking for a smaller percentage gain.
And if you go into my trade setup for Nvidia today, there is a rejection play. Every trade setup has got three things that you want to watch out for. A breakout scenario, a breakdown scenario, and a rejection scenario. today. The breakout and the rejection both worked for a nice little scalp and an easy win. But if you don't take my trade setups, you can also trade alongside me on Wednesdays and Fridays in the top tier.
But I also have a crown trader named Spy Lord that you can trade with on the other three days, all levels of the Discord. And today they booked four fat wins. Come and check it out. Don't trade alone. learn to chart and start trading in a community that is educational and helpful. I'll leave a link in the top pinned comment.
It's the name of the show is the name of the website www.stockswithjosh.com. Before I get into Microsoft, I'm going to give you guys one important indicator that you need to be watching, which is the VIX. We spiked when things got absolutely overwhelmingly bearish. we spiked all the way up to 60, which at the time I said in almost every video after that that this was a huge move up and that oftent times when we reached that level of extreme fear, it was time to buy.
And if you look at the VIX now, you can see that we've been slowly coming off of that high and things are calming down. And in that environment, stocks can go higher. Now, here's where it gets interesting, and I want you guys to pay attention to this because if we get down beneath 20 on the VIX, it means the market's going to go back into rally mode.
And as you can see, the trend right now is that the markets are clearly calming down. Does it mean that they're ripping higher? No. They're just slowly unwinding that fear trade, but that will and could eventually lead to FOMO and people wanting to buy as the markets begin to going back risk on. All right, let's jump into Microsoft and what I see happening in the charts right now.
We're going to break down the three things that I often talk to you guys about. What are they? Price, volume, and momentum. Those are the three indicators that tell us how the stock is fairing and which direction it's going to go and whether or not we should be buying long or selling what we've got. And what does the price of Microsoft tell us right now? Well, we're steadily as we get closer to earnings, creeping up to a very important breakout zone right around $400.
And so, the price has clearly moved off of the lows and is creeping higher. And even today, we've had a nice little steady move up. But are we going to get these earnings and is it going to get smacked down? Well, we get a better story when we start looking at the volume. We see that there actually has been a rise in buying volume as we move closer to earnings.
It is clearly showing accumulation and not panic. I want you to take notice that the largest green candle volume bar occurred at the most recent low. This is classic institutional defense zone buying and that happened in the 345 to 355 range. If, and this is such an important point, if when we get above 400 today, we see a surge in volume, then our target ahead is absolutely going to be a minimum move to 420.
And that'll happen in a shorter time frame and can be very very profitable. But alternatively, if we get up above that 400 and volume seems weak and stagnant, then we've got that rejection play at hand. It means that there was not high conviction to own this stock above that critical level and we need to go on defense and watch for a move back below 384.
And if that move occurs on volume, then this is going all the way back to 360. Now, I'm optimistic. And the last thing that we look at is the momentum indicators like the MACD and the RSI. And what are they telling us right now? Well, we've had a clean bullish crossover confirmed with an expanding histogram. This is suggesting a continued uptrend and it's around this time when fear still exists that those momentum indicators and that stealth buying begin to give us a reversal story.
But retail doesn't normally want to believe it at the moment. This with the momentum indicators and the volume and the price, it's all leaning bullish. And so if we're going to regard the technicals and if we're going to follow them, then we're going to hold some risk on Microsoft going into earnings. Now, here's what we need to watch after earnings.
We need to see whether or not we get rejected at the 60 on the RSI on the daily time frame. Okay? Because if it loses all volume and all momentum and we don't continue above the 60 on the RSI, then it means that this wasn't good, earnings didn't come out well. So, the technicals are not meant to provide you an absolute green light, red light to to risk, right? You have to look at them and consider, are they at least going in the direction you think that you should take a trade.
In this case, they are actually supporting my overall narrative that things are more bullish right now than the bears think and that the risk is on the side of the bears. We're going to have to see what uh we get from Microsoft earnings and I'm going to tell you what the analysts are watching for and expecting.
They want to see Azour cloud growth accelerating. Last quarter it missed the whisper numbers, but it missed it only slightly. So, they want to begin to see that reacelerate. And that's probably for sure the number one thing that would cause Microsoft to rip and get above that 405 and be on its way to 420. Then they want to see AI revenue impact.
They are the quiet AI king and investors want hard data on whether or not it's paying off. And the third thing is also super important. They want to know if they have a raised outlook for the remainder of 2025 and 2026 or whether or not there is warning of additional slowdown because at that point the stock will sell off and it'll drag the rest of big tech with them.
Right now, Wall Street in my opinion is taking some risk on Microsoft and giving them the benefit of the doubt going into this earnings. And we know that by the quiet confidence that we're seeing in the volume and the momentum indicators. If we don't make that local higher high above 420, then we are going to be continuing in an overall downtrend and this was simply another deadcat bounce event.
It' be very interesting to see how it all turns out. If you are doing smaller swing trades, I think you give Microsoft the benefit of the doubt. If you're a long-term investor and Microsoft does well, you're going to feel a little bit left behind, especially if we continue to chop higher, as I've believed that we will. All right, guys.
I'm going to leave it there. Thank you for joining me. Uh, make sure that you check out the Stocks with Josh Discord. Thank you for hitting that like. Thank you for joining the community by hitting the subscribe. I'll see you all in the next video. Tomorrow I'll be back in my studio where we will do another live trade session with the fam. Talk to you then.
Peace and blessings. Take care. Bye-bye.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rWyzjiIwfN0
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
Yep. Talk to that camera the whole time. Lights are going to come up, so if you're if you're a little dark when you're walking through, don't worry about it. Lights up, right? Good luck. Thank you, Mike. We're about to rock the world. It's incredible. They know nothing. They just talk. Man, money makes big money.
You're about to watch a show that no one's ever seen before. One where I put my skills to work for you. I am going to be your coach. This show, every show, I'm going to give you some money making ideas. And best of all, I'm going to tell it in a way that you have never ever heard before. [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] Hey, I'm Kramer.
Welcome to a special 20 year anniversary episode of Mad Money. Welcome to CR America. Other people make friends. I'm just trying to make you a little money. My job is not just entertain, but to educate to teach you. So call me at 1800 743 CBC. Tweet me at Jim Kramer. All right. Look, lately we can't go a day without hearing some widespread misperceptions about stock ownership.
I got to tell you, I think it's infuriating. Here we are celebrating the 20th anniversary of Mad Money, dedicated to the proposition that you can potentially make lots of money by picking individual stocks. Yet, I I keep hearing that most Americans don't care about the stock market and its direction means nothing.
I have to tell you, I think that is completely absurd. So, on a day when the Dow gained 300 points, that's climbed 58%, NASDAQ advanced 555%. Thank you for a nice day for our 20th. Let's talk about stock ownership because it's the whole reason anyone watches a darn show and it generally matters not just to the rich but to tens of millions of regular people home gamers and never let any politician tell you otherwise.
In this morning's New York Times, there was this article about people who voted for Trump and how they felt now that the market's well off its highs. I've listened to this guy, Daniel Vent Manager. He said he regretted his decision to vote for Trump because quote, "My 401k keeps dropping. That's bad.
Some people don't want to pretend it's bad because a large portion of this country does not have stocks. Most of MAGA doesn't have stocks. They don't care. End quote. All right. Look, I get where Daniel's coming from, but he's wrong about who owns stock. More than 60% of Americans have some exposure to the market, either directly or indirectly.
70 million people have active 401ks. Millions more have retired with them. 60 million people have IAS. Only 156 million people voted in November. I mean, we're talking half the electorate here. So, here's where I stand. When we started this show 20 years ago, we took an odd stance for anyone in this business. First, we were going to try to augment your paycheck.
Now, I've been doing it for 25 years before I started the show, and it worked every day, including the year of the the crash in 1987 in the docom bust in 2000. But second, I knew that you needed a champion. You were being taken for granted. So many brokerage houses just didn't seem to care.
They didn't think individual investors were worth catering to. For example, my maiden named wife had just had her account handed from a real exact to a machine and a clerk. Why? She wasn't big enough. That's called indignity. She had worked hard selling real estate and had stung that the $100,000 that shaved up over many, many years just wasn't enough to warrant real help from a brokerage firm. I fight for people like her.
The cab driver who stopped me last evening. Hey, money man. Who thanked me for making money for the first time ever. I fight for him. The kid outside Rock Center yesterday wanted a picture with me because I got him interested by teaching him how the stock market worked. I fight for him. The famous actor last week who apologetically asking for a selfie because his dad never misses the show and he's ahead of the pros with his picks.
I fight for him, too. Well, we're some strange country. We have all these amazing companies that do so many terrific things with stocks that can potentially make you fortunes. Yet neither political party wants to take credit for them. Sure, Trump invites him to the White House, but to what avails on their goods.
Maybe that's more pro business than, say, Biden, who shun CEOs and often bragged about how he owned no stocks back when he was a senator, bragging about it. But it amazes me that neither party wants to stand up for you, the investor. The financials create all of these products, the double and triple leverage ETFs, the zero days to Exper with no win securities.
I watched my friend Brian Sullivan interview commerce secretary Lutnik today while in the background. Taiwan Semi was building the largest foreign investment project in American history. That project was started by Taiwan Semi 5 years ago with Apple as its largest customer. The chips and science act under Biden got this plant rolling and Taiwan Timmy's commitment has grown much much larger under President Trump.
Nvidia makes chips there too. Terrific store. But there's a missing thread. These companies are owned by shareholders like the shareholders who voted for Trump and the shareholders who voted for Harris and the shareholders who voted for Biden before that. These companies want to do what's right by you, the shareholder. But they can't tell what's right if they don't have the clarity of the rules of the road.
They don't want to be told to build their factories in Mexico only to be then told that they're being tariffed by doing for doing so a few years later. They don't want to help strengthen relations between US and China by building cell phones in the PRC only to find out that they're aiding and abetting the enemy and now they have to crush their own shareholder owners.
They don't want to be told to create dumbed down versions of their chips for China and then be told that they can't even do that, forcing them to take a $5.5 billion charge for something that was supposed to be okay. That's Nvidia. Listen, shareholders are a constituency. We should be considered. It's not just arrogant rich people who own stocks.
In fact, the mega rich love to come on the air and tell you the stock market is too dangerous. Now look, stocks are ridiculously tax advantaged. More than just rich people want that. In a world where probably no more than 10% of this country can retire on their paycheck savings, stocks represent a different kind of social security.
A one-sided pack where people try to save and the government dismisses them. Oh, and I I don't for one minute believe that all of the CEOs who come on the show are necessarily looking out for you. Some aren't. We don't like them. We have a zest to expose. Now, we don't have subpoena power, but we do have embarrassment power, and we use that for all it's worth.
You know what we do it for? We do it for you. It's the Mad Money Manifesto. The bottom line, we fight for you, and we champion you, and we're grateful for every minute you have us on. We thank you for our 20 years. Without you, we'd be off the air 19 years ago. with you. We do our best to help you, to entertain you, to teach you, and yes, to stick up for you in a country where our leaders and many of our people deny that you even exist. Let's speak to Trey in Texas.
Trey, Jim, congratulations to you and your awesome team, and thank you for giving us retail investors a seat at the table for 20 years. Well, thank you, Trey. And you're terrific to to talk to. I'm glad you called in. How can I help? Well, Jim, I've been modeling for Abberrombie and Fitch for a few years now, and I got to tell you, several of the data points I'm seeing in my model suggest ANF may be seriously undervalued here.
What are your thoughts? You know what? I've got to see what they look like in a tariff world, Trey, because I don't know exactly how much of their stuff is going to have to go up in price. The stock is reflecting a lot of that, but you're, you know, you're right. It's six times earnings, but you and I both know six times earnings means usually that the earnings estimates are too high. But it's 65 bucks. 3.
3 billion dollar company. I think you can pick up a little. But then wait, let's go to Dave in Illinois. Dave. Dr. Kramer, my good mad friend. Now celebrating 20 years of Mad Money with Jim Kramer. How are you feeling today, Mr. Energizer Bunny? Dave, I got to tell you, uh, I'm nervous. I'm tingling. I got a lot of people here.
I they're they're count on me and I'm feeling darn darn worried that I'm letting them down. I hear you. Ringing the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange with Regina, Heather, Cliff, and Emma to name a few. What a thrill. Well, you know, it was the real deal. And we've been tigling about it all day and I I'm so grateful for the network and I'm grateful for people like you, Dave, who just made our show great.
How can I help you today? Let's get to work. up rough roughly roughly 45% so far on the year. This 20 billion market cap company offers a range of products and services to their identities. They recorded earnings beats in each of the last three quarters. 44 analysts cover this stock. 22 are buy or strong by recommendations. As the newest member of the S&P 400 midcaps, I'm asking you today about Octa.
I think Octa is terrific. It's one of the greatest companies. I'll tell you, anybody who works there has a great time and they have done remarkable things and Tom McKinnon is terrific and so is cyber security anti-stocks. This one is a winner. I'm going to give you a two for Dave because you're so terrific.
Crowd Strike and Palo Alto Networks, they're all terrific. And thank you for the calls. Thank you for all the callers all these years. Thank you so much. All right, our Mad Money Manifesto has been the same for 20 years. We champion you, we fight for you, and we stick up for you.
And stick around at 7:00 tonight at the end of the show. It's going to be a walk down memory lane, a documentary about Mad Money on Mad Money. Tonight, from oil rigs to factories, we spent the past two decades bringing Crane America to company sites across the country. Tonight, I'm checking in with one of those hosts, New Core, after his recent report.
Then, what stocks have stood the test of time since Mad Money first aired? I'm revealing the top 10 winners and later Honeywell reported top and bottom line beat this morning. I've got the club holdings top brass to learn more. So stay with [Applause] Kramer. Don't miss a second of mad money. Follow Jim Kramer on X. Have a question? Tweet Kramer #madmentions.
Send Jim an email to madmoney@cnbc.com or give us a call at 1800743CNBC. Miss something? Head to madmoney.cnbc.com. [Music] Let me nail this one. All right. He's enjoying this. Well, let's just put it way. That's Jim. It's all over [Music] the Bruce is a vegetarian. I talk about some other place. Let's get him. So, we'll go over the uh skid pad.
I'll do some drifting. Okay. And then we'll do a burnout. You sure you don't want to drive? No, no, no. You got You're in control. I really appreciate that. Say it while I'm while I'm going up. Yeah, exactly. So, it's one shot. Okay. Ready? [Music] [Applause] Hey, I'm Crramer. Hey, I'm Cramer. Hey, I'm Kramer. Welcome to Mad Money.
Welcome to Bad Money. Welcome to Mad Money. Welcome to Cray America. Welcome to Cra America. Hello from the city of brotherly love, 140 mi off the coast of Louisiana. Welcome to Dream Force Conference in San Francisco. I'm on a boat. Welcome to Dearborn, Michigan. We're on the Mississippi River in front of New Core Steel, Louisiana.
Mad Money is in the heart of steel country. Mad money is boots on the ground in the bad lands. This is what we'll do. Find good ideas to invest in America. Who says we don't make anything anymore? [Music] That was a look at all the places this show has visited on the road over the last 20 years.
We've got new Mad Money from the Michigan car factories, offshore oil rigs, and even a direct production facility in Louisiana that belong to our next guest, Newore. In fact, steelmaker Newor has joined Mad Money almost every quarter for our last 20 years. Last, it's because I love the company so much, I'll just play them with a hand open.
Last night, we got a solid quarter from Newore. Even better, management gave us some positive commentary about how they see demand shaping up in the months ahead. That doesn't jive with the conventional wisdom that claims we're headed for a nasty recession. You know, I don't believe that either, but don't take it from me.
Let's check in with Leon Talion. He's the chairman, president, CEO of Neworn. Mr. Pal, welcome back to May Buddy. Hey Jim, thanks for having me and um congratulations to you and your entire team. 20 years is an incredible milestone and Newore is glad to be a part of that over the last two decades. Well, Leon, we are thrilled to have you and I I am also thrilled that you uh I hope you understand we recognize you as much as you recognize us because you're such a great American company.
Uh last I got to tell you, I was thrilled about your numbers. To me, it says trough, trough, trough. I see everything going your way after prolong, you know, kind of a pretty long downturn. Am I too optimistic? No. Look at we share in that enthusiasm and optimism as you look at the quarter overquarter improvements as we think about the projections.
Our backlogs are up 30%. Um we continue to see strong order entry and again the end drivers for new core construction data centers energy um OCTG and the markets that are yet still emerging uh all are pointing for very strong signs as we head into the second quarter and the rest of the year. You know it also.
So Jim, one of those data points too I'll just share with you as we think about Newor is the largest structural fabricator in the United States. When you think about the backlog at our New York Yumato facility today in our Berkeley beam mill, it is the largest backlog in the history of our company like ever.
And so as you think about that as a bellweather for the rest of the industry, that volume and those tons that sit in that backlog are through fabricators that don't pre-order. They don't buy ahead. They book only on the business that's contracted today. So that gives you a really good indication of how strong like to the tune of hundreds of thousands of tons at that sector of the economy alone.
So again like you I'm optimistic about our future but clearly for the rest of the year we see uh improving signs coming through the economy. I also want to make another point. I think that if we didn't have a level playing field, if we had a playing field like you and I have seen periodically, we would not be talking about the great strength of a great American company.
We'd be talking about how you've been shut out of a lot of situations because other countries wanted those projects. Absolutely, Jim. Look, the the the last four years, we've seen our trading partners and countries take full advantage of the 232 or the TRQs that were put in place. It was long overdue for these to be uh refurbished, revamped, and revised.
And that's exactly what we're seeing today in the Trump administration. And again, but now with some nuance, not only pivoting where he needed to pivot, but also adding things like derivative products that um again take a much more holistic view and helping the entire vibrancy of the steel industry and ensuring that we have a strong um resilient industry for national defense.
You know, I heard someone on air say, "You know what, Jim, you you support this industry. It actually creates very few jobs and it's not very big." I've been schooled by you and your predecessors that when you look at something like what's going on in West Virginia. When you put up a steel mill, it doesn't end there. It is actually the force multiplier that our country is desperate for.
Actually, Jim, let me tell you about the last 5 years alone. We've invested 20 billion dollars to grow this company. In that same period of time, we've created 9,000 direct jobs and over 40,000 direct jobs. What do you think that does for the communities where we live and work? What do you think that's going to do in helping partner and transform counties like Mason County, West Virginia or Lexington, North Carolina, Kingman, Arizona, and all the investments that New Cor is involved in across the entire US. So, we are long-term partners in the
communities where we live and work. And that investment, um, man, we're all in. And that's going to be one of the strongest, safest, most profitable mills that, uh, New Cor's ever undertaken in West Virginia. So, I couldn't be more optimistic. New Coror's best days are still in front of us.
And I I also want to point out that you can help us with pricing. It's not like you've jacked up pricing because of the tariffs. Pricing is pricing can go much higher than it is right now. Oh, absolutely. Look, we're in a commodity business. It is the bottom line, man. What what supply and demand is going to dictate.
And so, yeah, you're absolutely right. The highs of of 2021 and two, man, we are way way below that. So while there's strength in the economy, there's a lot of room left. And again, you've not seen the full earnings power and potential come through new core yet. And I think also it's important, we've seen these projects uh get pushed by the government, big big subsidies, they make everything right.
People talk about how they streamline everything. You actually pick communities that need you. You do it yourself. What you've done basically is say, you know what, we don't need your help. We have a level playing field. We'll put up factories all over the country. Isn't that what's happening in all these different little towns that you're in? Oh, absolutely.
And again, we're in 40 states across this incredible nation of ours. We have incredible long-term relationships. And again, we live and work in those communities. So, we're going to school, church, communities, movie theaters, and so those investments again like those in Mason County and other parts of the US where we're invested, um, it's a long-term relationship.
And New Cor is a great community steward, environmental stu steward, sustainability, but again, we're giving back as our people are invested there, buying homes there. And again, that tax base and community and you think about a $4 billion sheet mill in Mason County that is going to transform that industry in that area. Well, look, I've got to tell you, it's a delight to have you on our 20th.
It's pure joy. Ever since I didn't know I didn't know you about your company till 1985, but holy cow, what a what a just a gem it is. That's Leon Talian. He's the chairman, president, CEO of Newor. This stock is at the right price. Believe me, Leon, thank you for coming on the show in this special day. Thanks so much, Jim. Congrats again.
Mad Money's back after the break. Coming up, the Bulls have been running wild ever since Mad Money came on the air. But which stocks have performed better than the rest? Kramer is counting down the top 10 names over the last 20 years next. Last night, we started going through the 20 best performing stocks since man first aired way back in March of 2005.
Cuz these winners really represent the core thesis of the show that you can make a killing by picking the right stocks, doing the homework, and sticking with the great ones. We already covered number 22, 23, all the way down to 11. And for this 20th anniversary show, I want to give you the top 10. To start, we've got a trio of healthcare names.
Well, actually begin with the 11th best performer because it fell one spot today behind Radnet, which we discussed last night, and that's Replen RGN. It's a company that makes high value bioprocessing products for life sciences and biioharma customers. This one's up 7,800% since we first went on air. Replen is basically an arms dealer to the pharma and biotech space making critical reagents using all sorts of innovative new treatments like monocodal antibodies.
This is a stock that rocketed higher during the pandemic and it's now been more than cut in half from its highs in late 2021. Even here is pretty expensive though, selling for about 80 times this year's earnings estimates. So I'm not quite ready to stick my neck out on this one. Even if I generally like the arms dealers, the life sciences industries, rearrange Replen's ticker just a bit and you'll get the ninth best stock of the mad money era, Regeneron Pharma.
That's up more than 9400%. Now, this one's special to me because Regeneron's co-founder and CEO, Dr. Len Schifer, he was one of the first guests who ever came on the show back in April 12th, 2005. The stock was trading at less than five bucks a share. Now, it's at $568. all aboard and that's after 6.87% beating today.
Regener is arguably the most innovative bioarma companies I've seen in the last two decades. But the stocks come in significantly over the past 8 months or so falling more than 50% from its highs. Wall Street is trying to gain the impact of Regeneron's first big patent cliff as they lost protection for their EIA. That's a blockbuster treatment for wet age related macular degeneration.
In fact, when we're general reporting this morning, numbers came up a little short because of an IE miss, which is why the stock got clobbered today. Eighth best performer of the mad money era is Intuitive Surgical, ISRG, the creator of the minimally invasive Da Vinci robotic surgical system. This is another name that we found early on.
I first interviewed someone from the company back in July of 2005 when the stock was trading at a split adjusted price of $5 and change. Since then, we've watched this intuitive robotic surgical system has spread across the globe, constantly improving along the way and adding more types of procedures that it could do.
The company's now 184 billion dollar behemoth and this stock has given you more than 10,000% gain since the show got started. I think it's as relevant as ever. Cup just reported an excellent set of numbers uh last Tuesday. I'm proud to be a huge supporter of this. in seventh place with a more than 10,300% gain is a fun one.
Monster Beverage, the energy drink company that was originally known as Hansen Natural before its big rebrand in 2012. Even though the stocks lost some juice in recent years, the long-term gains here have been staggering, and I pounded the table on this one constantly in the early years. Next, we're entering cream of the crop territory.
In sixth place, we find a magnificent seven name, Amazon, up more than 10,700% gain in the mad money era. When this show began, Amazon was a lowly survivor of the dotcom bust, growing its e-commerce business nicely, but still barely profitable. Since then, though, it's grown into a colossus with a sprawling e-commerce business and a bountiful cloud infrastructure division.
Now, as a mega cap tech giant, Amazon has all sorts of exciting new growth opportunities from a still underappreciated advertising business to the prime membership program that's brought the company into the streaming media space. Much, much more. Amazon reports on Thursday night. While I'm sure there'll be a lot of talk about tariffs, of course, uh, and the state of the consumer, this is one of the few retailers with enough bargaining power to truly mitigate these new import duties, and I still like it for the long
haul. Fifth place, OB One, Texas Pacific Land Corporation, up nearly 13,000% since we first went on air. It's a fun story. uh with its origins dating back to the 1800s when a planned railroad line went bankrupt and the only remaining asset for creditors to take was some land in western Texas.
Turns out it was very valuable land sitting on vast reserves of oil and gas. These days, Texas Pacific simply leases its land holdings to oil and gas related companies or pipeline operators. It's a great business, but uh it's not necessarily one that I want to recommend with West Texas crude sinking to $60 a barrel today. Don't buy. Don't buy. Don't buy.
Fourth place, Apple up more than 14,500% since we went on air. The great thing about Apple is these guys were totally getable. Come on. This was the most obvious story in America for years and years. It's much harder to own here because it's under fire from the White House for sourcing most of its merchandise from China for the cell phones.
But it's still a terrific illustration of the fact that you don't need to be a genius to pick winners in this business. Third best performer over the last 20 years, Booking Holdings. Yes, the online travel agency, formerly known as Price Leline, with a stock that's up a staggering 22,000%. These guys figured out how to dominate the increasingly online travel space and made some very smart acquisitions over the years.
Long-term, I'm still a believer, although we have to take a hard look after it reported just this very evening. Second place, okay, a name you know very well from the show and that's Nvidia. Do you know that Nvidia is up more than 50,000% since the show began? Nvidia. It piqu my interest over 15 years ago when it was originally just a maker of graphics cards for video games.
Since then, we've had the privilege of watching Nvidia blossom into the king of artificial intelligence and accelerated computing. You know, I named my late dog Nvidia because I wanted you all to know about it. Many people have. if I say you bet against Nvidia at your own peril. Last, but certainly not least, is Netflix, the best performing major stock since the show first went on the air.
This had a staggering 82,000% gain. You'd be rich by any stretch of the imagination, no matter almost how little you put in. When we started the show, Netflix invented the entire streaming video category. It's back in 2005. They were still doing DVD rental by mail. And this was another one that I think was incredibly obvious.
Netflix has essentially won versus traditional media at this point, but they're not standing pat. Not at all. Still improving the service as much as possible, which is why I bet this one can continue to climb over the long hall. Bottom line, when you look at the 10 best performing stocks of the last 20 odd years, so many of these were getable if you simply believed in your ability to pick stocks and stuck with them for the long haul. Pleasure. Let's take questions.
Let's go to Bill in Massachusetts. Bill Jimbo, congratulations. Happy anniversary. I I feel like I grew up with Jim Kramer watching. You probably did grow up with me. I think you're in my you were in my elementary school class. What's going on? Started out on the weekends and then went to fulltime in the 2000s.
It's been great. I've had a great time with you. I got to tell you. Ah, you're a good man. How can I help you today? Listen, I I I you said before to pick up a little car, but it's up 20%. I'm very happy with it. It's still down 80 $80 from its high. Do you think I could pick up a little more or should I wait? I like it here.
I like it here for the long term. Why? Because I think the Mediterranean is a is a kind of food that can be like Chipotle. It can be the previous, you know, just the way Chipotle had a big run. I think Cabba can, too. All right, listen up. An investment over 20 years can lead to some pretty staggering stock gains.
You can get a piece of the winners in the future as long as you believe in your stock picks and you stick with us. But for me money and including my post earnings exclusive with club name Honeywell. Then as I ref back on the show's 20-year tenure, I'm giving you some insights into the thesis that started it all.
And it's a little surprising. Of course, all your calls rapid fire tonight's edition of the lightning round. So stay with Kramer. [Music] Look at the stock of Honeywell Go. This morning, the iconic industrial conglomerate reported a magnificent quarter and even raised its fullear earnings forecast. Welcome news because we own this one for the travel trust.
Best of all, management detailed all the progress they're making on their plan to break the company into three pieces. So, let's take a close look with Viml Kapoor. He's the chairman CEO of Honeywell International to learn more. Mr. Kapor, welcome back to Mad Money. Hey Jim, uh first of all congratulations on uh 20th years of your uh great show.
So uh really proud of what you have accomplished. Not many people have reached here. So I really want to start with that. A Vivville, you're very glad and I want to return turn the compliment. This was an amazing quarter. High level, great set of numbers, double expectations, better than expected margins.
Uh what are the main drivers of this upside at a time when people tell us to be worried about the industrials? Yep. So I would say a lot of things are working for us well. Uh starting with our aerospace business continues to perform quite well. Uh we again grew high single digit for many quarters in a row.
Uh that's driven by more and more supply chain recovery. Uh another headline for the quarter was uh our building automation did business also grew high single digit. So as we are working on our strategy to repurpose our portfolio to pivot more and more towards high growth verticals I think that's really showing up in the building automation results.
So both the businesses grow high single digit other businesses per performed on expectations our energy and industrial automation business. So overall we're very pleased with the 4% growth we delivered in uh Q1 and then we maintained our guide for the year uh which was originally 1 to 4% organic growth for the full year and uh we feel confident to deliver that.
So how do you feel about the uh the breakup plans now because uh now you've got a every single one of these divisions are division that I would like to own. Yep. So I would say the the plans to spin into three companies uh Jim are progressing for plans. We expect to complete the spin of chemicals business uh by end of this year, earliest later early next year.
So that's progressing quite well. We do expect to provide a specific date during our Q2 earnings call because we're much more closer to the event. And the aerospace pin is also progressing uh on plan for second half of uh 2026. It's early days. We'll refine the time to make the date more finer in uh you know next few months. uh at the same time I'm working on uh what we will call new Honeywell because we are going to spin aerospace and going to spin chemicals business uh the equity story of that I really feel excited about what's coming ahead for Honeywell
a powerful automation play pure play automation focused on three verticals and very strong business model of building install base and mining install base so exciting times ahead for Honeywell well why don't you talk about your role coming up because I think it's going to be a terrific one and one that I think I probably want to be involved in.
Yep, absolutely. And I think you'll be uh everybody is going to be pleased how Honeywell is going to shape up post the spin. I think the aerospace story is well known. Uh but automation story is going to be equally compelling because automation is all pervasive in our life and Honeywell provides automation in buildings in infrastructure in process industry in industrial sector and as data and AI is growing more and more software and services are going to become more relevant in uh in that in that segment. So that makes me believe
that we are going to be very compelling proposition for our share owners as a standalone automation company. And I have to tell you, your your confidence in your business, which is totally justified, was unshakable when it in the in the face of tariffs. I think you pretty much said, "Listen, we're going to mitigate it.
It's not as big a concern as the analysts think." Yep. And Jim, that's on the strength of uh what we call local for local. We basically make product where we sell. So in United States, most of our manufacturing, what we sell in US is made in US and so on. So the tariffs have an impact of about half a billion dollar in our P&L for 2025.
But think about that in a $440 billion company on a on a percentage basis. It's a not a significant impact and that's because of our local for local strategy. And we are very confident to mitigate that with a combination of some pricing actions and some productivity actions. So we protect our earnings. We also want to protect our demand and uh we're going to execute on that plan.
Well, look, congratulations. Just terrific work and uh wow. I mean, I just thought it was just one of the best quarters I've seen this year. Congratulations to Biml Capor. He's the chairman CEO of Honeywell. Thanks for coming on the show and a big night for us, too. Thank you, Jim. Congratulations again. Dy's back after the break.
Coming up, Kramer takes your calls and the sky's the limit. It's a fast fire lightning round next. [Music] It is time. It's time. The light round said bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye throw up my step but you play this out and then the lightning round is over. Are you ready? D the light round over. Jacob in Alaska.
Jacob Booya Jim, longtime fan, proud investment club member and grateful beneficiary of your transparency and education. And thank you very much for calling in. How can I help? Absolutely. Uh first off, just wanted to thank you for two decades of relentless energy, honesty, and advocacy for the everyday investor.
You've helped shape how I invest, how I live, and how I teach others to build stable financial futures. I'm honored to learn from you, to speak with you, and to carry your mission forward in my own way. Now, down to business. I wanted to ask the follow-up question on my hometown carrier, Alaska Airlines. Well, look, first of all run, so don't take this the wrong way, but the airlines are wrong to own right here because people think we're going into a travel recession.
I think you'd still go lower. Let's go to Joe in New Jersey. Joe, hello, Mr. Kramer. Congratulations on your 20 years of mad money. And over the years, I've learned and earned and kept a diversified portfolio. and very importantly held on to Costco and Apple for many years with Well played. Well played, Joe.
How can I help you now? So much for that. And uh with tariff uncertainty, is Kimberly Clark a buy? All right, yield 3.8. I think you go down to 4.5% because right now that's the operative level. They did not make the quarter. I was a little bummed out. Let's wait till it goes lower. Let's go to Kate in Georgia. Kate Jim, congratulations on 20 years.
That's awesome. Thank you. I'm so grateful to be a small part of the journey and I've been in the investing club from the beginning. Thank you. And I've gained I've gained so much insight and I've learned so much. I am so grateful. So this morning I took profits in Crowd Strike and I was just wondering how do you feel about Crowd Strike for the long term? Okay.
I think for the long term it's terrific. We had to take some profits out of it too cuz it just got too big. But I think George Curts is delivering an amazing product and I think he's got a lot to say. He's given a speech tonight. I think that Crowd Strike is terrific. Let's take another. Let's go to Ross in Alabama.
Ross Jim, happy Tuesday. Ah, thank you Ross. Right back at you. What's going on? Hey man, calling uh some questions about your thoughts on a stock I've been watching. It's about 30% off its highs from a few months ago. That's uh DDF dealer. Now, I mean, and we're in a world now where you're really going to make money in Amazon, in TJX, okay? You'll make money in uh Walmart and you're going to be struggling to make money in any other retailer other than Costco.
I don't think Dillards is a place to be. Let's go to another Let's go to Tyler in Illinois. Tyler, booyah. Jim, love the show. What do we think about buying next tracker NXT? Okay, I do believe look, it had a good quarter. I did think that the that the president did not really care for win, but this kind he doesn't mind this. This is technology all made in America, so I think you're okay. Not great, not bad.
And that, ladies and gentlemen, of the lightning round. The lightning round is sponsored by Charles Schwab. Coming up, Kramer's taking a walk down memory lane to share MadMoney's origin story and his message to all the investors out there planning for the long haul. [Music] Next, when I come up with Mad Money more than 20 years ago, my idea had its genesis in the ponies.
That's right, horse racing. I always like the races, just like my mother. We go together. We bet on every race. We bet on some favorites, but mostly long shots. We lost a lot of money together. In college, I went to Suffach Downs, broken down track, any beautiful day during the season, and continued my losing ways. I gave away my work studying money in vain attempt to augment it.
Then one day, the sports editor of the Harvard Crimson, a man who knew how to handicap, taught by the best, Andy Byer, the amazing racing runner, took me to the track because he'd heard I couldn't resist and was taking a beating. He said if I was going to gamble, I had to gamble wisely. He told me to bet only when I had done a huge amount of homework on a horse and figured out whether the odds looked misplaced against the field.
Betting on the ponies wasn't meant to be a lark. You had to have both discipline and conviction. You had to have to you had to study the past performances, visit out of the way racetracks, Delaware Downs, Liberty Bell Park, and find the anomaly. Bet on that one, that one only, and then leave. Basically, he was telling me to look for the horse racing equivalent of a stock misvaluation.
And that's exactly what I did. Discipline with conviction. And suddenly, I won and I won and I won. Real money, enough to go places, do things, dress better. I kept it up and I went to Florida and into California as a reporter. Always looking for the out of the way tracks. Always some isolated instance.
A maiden claimer at Golden Gate, fourth at Sanonita. Didn't matter. I studied and studied to find that one horse, the unpolished gym. Now, when I became a professional investor, I had to come up with multiple wins constantly to just by my paycheck. But I never forgot what it felt like when I was a struggling, well, I guess nent reporter trying to make a buck at the track.
What does this have to do with me money? Simple same principle. I know the great will always say you should go with index funds. I get that. But there are still millions of people who want to invest in individual stocks. They just don't necessarily know how to do it wisely. I figured if I could show people what I learned first at Goldman Sachs and then at my hedge fund.
If I could teach them the way I was taught at the track, they could at last have a fighting chance, discipline, conviction, no larks, no tips. I refined these ideas first on my radio show, Real Money, and then on this show, adding some entertainment to make the teaching go down more easily. A wild opening, a couple of stocks, skits, and then interviews once the CEOs finally decide to come on.
always thinking like I was with my mom. Just out there gambling, and let's have them invest, increase the odds of success, stay interested in their own money and win. Here we are 20 years later, and I'm more convinced than ever that it's my job to help teach those who want to do it themselves. So far, the students seem pretty darn satisfied.
I guess I'll just have to keep going because I'm not going to stop until the network sends in guys with butterfly nets to yank me off the air. If you've ever dabbled in the stock market, chances are you know who Jim Kramer is. One of the greatest, most spectacular performers on television. We turn now to a Wall Street veteran, a financial heavy hitter, and he's the man hundreds of thousands of hopeful investors turn to every day.
makes his living throwing chairs, hitting buzzers, and screaming at the top of his lungs. The mad profit of profit. Jim Kramer. Jim Kramer. Please welcome Jim Kramer. Mad Money's Jim Kramer. My first question is, we never discussed this. What's wrong with you? Booyah. Booyah. Booyah. Ski daddy. Ski daddy. We have no idea what that means.
Stock guru, mad money, bestselling author, and fantasy football fanatic. Market's crazy, so you got to have a mad man. He's going to stay focused. [Applause] We were talking about making money. Jim Kramer is here tonight. This is the great Jim Kramer from Mad Money on CNBC. A really terrific show. Mad Money's Jim Kramer. Jim Kramer.
I think this thing could even go as high as a don't buy. Don't buy. Jim Kramer hosts Mad Money on this network. What does CNBC? Hello fellow Facebookers. I'm here to do one thing. get you more friends. Stark Industries. Let me show you the new Stark Industries business plan. I'm grounded and spend all day listening to my dad yell at Mad Money with Jim Kramer. Are you okay? Oh, yeah.
It's nothing. I was a guest on Mad Money last night. What's happening? Jim Kramer. Okay. Jim Kramer had this to say about the economy. He's a prophet. Listen. And he's nuts. They're nuts. They know nothing. You said it was going to be the end of the world. Nobody knows anything. They know nothing. They know nothing.
In retrospect, don't you think you were too calm? Whatever money you may need for the next 5 years, please take it out of the stock market right now. That was a call that should have wrecked my career and it would have if the market gone up, but I stuck my neck out and did it and saved a lot of people money that he was right at that point.
We were at the beginning of this great panic. I'm stupid. Don't say that. You know, it's very hard. They're stupid. Is it? Yes. I have a gift to turn people on to this stuff to get them involved. And I and I I love doing it. I love to teach and educate this stuff. This stuff is for me. This stuff is really for me. It is the right thing.
I cannot believe how lucky I am at this age to have come across an unbelievable thing, which is a show that I run and I love. [Music] The only reason that we can do this show is thanks to a legion of amazing people through the years. Some you see around me who have deep mad money roots and true friends of the show and some you see behind me back in the control room.
We like to say there's always a bull market somewhere. And we promise to try to find it just for you right here on Mad Money. I'm Jim Kramer. See you tomorrow. A special MadMoney documentary starts now. All opinions expressed by Jim Kramer on this podcast are solely Kramer's opinions and do not reflect the opinions of CNBC, NBC Universal, or their parent company or affiliates and may have been previously disseminated by Kramer on television, radio, internet, or another medium. You should not treat any opinion
expressed by Jim Kramer as a specific inducement to make a particular investment or follow a particular strategy, but only as an expression of his opinion. Kramer's opinions are based upon information he considers reliable, but neither CNBC nor its affiliates and or subsidiaries warrant its completeness or accuracy, and it should not be relied upon as such.
To view the full MadMoney disclaimer, please visit cnbc.com/madmoney disclaimer.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lUwh6dAm8MI&t=114s
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English - CC1
English (auto-generated)
Welcome back to the Watch List. We bring in our panel to talk about consumer confidence. Brian Jacobsen is with us, chief economist at Onex Wealth Management, and Art Laffer, president of Laffer Tengler Investments. Good to see you both. Thank you so much for being here. Art, I'll ask you first.
I mean, the consumer numbers come in. The sentiment comes in dropping again. It's the fourth month in a row here, in fact, now going near the lowest level since 2022. At the same time, you know, there are bright spots. So what do you make of it? The consumer is front ending the tariffs. And it's kind of like if you remember cash for clunkers government policies have consequences.
And the consequences in this case is that the consumer is trying to get ahead of the tariff increases, which are due in April. It's not surprising. It's pretty typical. And interesting thing is you're going to see the you see the trade deficit spiked in the first quarter a lot, and you're going to see the inventory numbers show up in the second quarter.
So you're going to see a big downturn I think in GDP in first and then the offset in the second quarter. Brian, are you worried. Well I'm probably not quite as worried as what consumers in general are when you look at those consumer confidence numbers, because we can break it out between the present situation versus expectations.
And it's really that expectations component that has been pushed off of a cliff here. I think that a lot of people are very worried and rightfully so, oftentimes about what's going to happen. I think I might just have a little bit more constructive view about how quickly some deals might be negotiated, and the extent to which the market has already priced in the possibility of a recession.
If we think back on April 9th, the market was effectively pricing in the certainty of recession, and now it's just moved to almost like a coin flip. And I think that there's enough underlying economic momentum where we can still get through this without necessarily having a recession. Understood. Art, where do we go from here? I mean, what could change the picture here, if any, in a realistic way? Because I'm sure you have a base case and then maybe what could happen? Yeah.
I mean, I think the thing that could happen that would make things at least a story change a lot faster for the for the better would be to cut a deal at worst case with Europe, try to get the whole U.S, because that's obviously a very large bloc if we can resolve the China. I don't I don't think this administration is going to cut them back down to where they were.
I think that's kind of out the door. But if we can get better deals with some of the bigger blocs and get resolution which which is what the consumer is looking for, they're looking for certainty. It's not just the consumer. Manufacturers and suppliers are looking for the same type of information. So getting some kind of resolution, even if it's not perfect, right.
And you know, Brian, maybe what kind of opportunities does this mean for investors if any? Well, yeah, I think that the opportunities here are really to continue to focus on that bottom up analysis. And it's almost become somewhat cliched to say that it's become like a stock pickers market. It seems like we say that all the time.
But in this type of environment, there are important distinctions to be made between companies as far as their supply chains, who their final consumers are. And I think that's really what we're focusing on here are what are those companies that are profitable and if anything, might be able to gain market share in this type of environment where competitors costs might be rising faster than their costs are.
And at this point now, what kind of investments would you make, Brian, when you're talking about the opportunities that could, you know, you're doing the analysis, bottom up analysis, what kind of sectors or stocks? I had two guests today who already said the bottom is in. I don't know. I don't know, but I mean, what kind of things would you be buying now? Sure.
Well, I do think that maybe the bottom is in where on on April 9th, the market pricing in the certainty of a recession. Because we do know that markets are forward looking. So even these confidence surveys they're supposed to be forward looking, but in fact they tend to be more coincident with the economic cycle.
And so if the market is anticipating that we're going to get a slowdown, it's quite likely that the reality isn't going to be as bad as what's being priced in or as feared. So I think, you know, broad based diversification could work here. But we're focused more on some, like ETFs, for example, that focus on profitable companies trading at valuations that are slightly lower than their peers.
So something very simple like that. If you're looking for some broad based exposure when it's getting into the stock by stock, it's looking at areas like industrials, financials and even some of the health care areas. So those are some of the like maybe three of the sectors that we would call out on our investment committee for where to do some of that fishing.
Right. I mean what do you think? What do you tell investors here today? To be calm and try to do smart things like buy good quality, high quality companies, focus on fundamentals, don't try to market time that invariably that doesn't work well. And especially especially don't try to get in and out of the market.
I've seen a lot of that people talking about, you know, trying to liquidate their portfolios. They just get so overwhelmed by the by the bad messages, you know, kind of across the spectrum of stuff. They read that they tend to panic. And that's usually the worst thing that you could do. Stick with managers that know how to pick stocks, pick investments, and use a disciplined process.
All right. Well it's great to see you both. Thank you both so much. Art
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ehgHlPXWX5I&t=57s
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
[Music] Consumer confidence fell again in April according to the conference board. That's the fifth straight month of declines and the expectations index hitting its lowest level since 2011. That's well below the threshold that typically suggests an incoming recession. Here with some advice for increasingly nervous consumers, we've got Michael Leish, Wells Fargo head of advice and planning in studio with us.
Michael, it's good to see you again here. I mean, this is not fun data and a reading to talk about when it's showing a consumer that's a little tepid right now here on a consistent basis. What do you make of this reading here? So, consumer confidence and and you saw the data specifically mentioned tariffs as a concern and I think that's key here, Brad.
And so, when we think of tariffs, we think of uncertainty. Uh, consumers have undergone a lot with inflation rates. And so that's what we're seeing here is that consumer confidence just continues to decrease because there's still uncertainty with respect to how high prices will go and what should I do about it from a spending perspective. Right Brad? Absolutely.
And so as we think about that too, our our consumers I mean yes consumers are still spending but it's what they're spending on and how they're spending that is clearly changing here. What are you seeing within some of that data as well? So when we think of the data you can really parse it into three types of spending. one is and we'll label it doom spending, right? And given un uncertainty, I'm just going to engage in some type of re retail therapy and spend and really ignore what's going on around me.
Uh the second one is really your panic spending. So I want to, you know, get ahead of supply chain issues. I want to get ahead of increasing inflation. And the third type of spending is what we see actually most consumers engaging in. And we saw it in our Wells Fargo money study where over 80% of consumers want to be more intentional about they're spending carveoff money to save and invest for their future self just in case there is a recession just in case they have to manage through a job loss and then to ensure that they're looking
out for their future. So that speaks to a little bit of the potential panic buying that we might be seeing some of the current uncertainty and and within that certain uh that uncertainty rather it also comes back to what prospects look like for jobs in the employment front as well here.
We actually had seen the job openings and labor turnover summary uh come out this morning. Number of job openings essentially little changed 7.2 million in March and then additionally hires that held at 5.4 4 million total separations also little changed here. And so all these things in mind, it really does influence how consumers are thinking about their employment prospects and that also kind of dovetailing into where they're willing to spend at this juncture as well. Absolutely.
So when you think about being concerned about keeping a job or getting a job, which is what you're alluding to, really this idea of saving becomes increasingly critical and not just saving for opportunistic investing. Yeah. Which I know you talk a lot about on this program. Um, it's really saving to and and it's like that traditional emergency fund, Brad, to make sure I have six months, nine months, a year to accommodate my spending pattern so I wouldn't have to change anything dramatically.
You know, take a child out of school, you know, you know, think about not getting that remodel done that I've always wanted to get done to manage through that job, let's call it, shift or change. And so, we see a lot of Americans really being more intentional about that and carving off money so that they can plan for that rainy day. All right.
So, let's help people plan a little bit here. What are your tips for managing finances right now in this type of environment that consumers are clearly thinking through? So, what we see in our data is not everyone has a goals-based plan, Brad. And I know a lot of people talk about it, but they don't do it. And so taking action on that goalsbased plan, figuring out what is a top priority for you tactically.
So right now your essential expenses and stress testing that what could you lower to manage through a cycle all the way to those long-term goals like retirement. When are you going to retire? Are you in retirement? How long is that retirement going to be? How much do you need to manage through those essential expenses? That's really critical get to get in place.
Number one priority. Number two is look at the asset allocation. and you've been talking about this with different folks that you're investing toward. Does it need to change? Does your risk profile need to adjust because over the past couple years maybe there are certain positions that have gotten larger because they've run up in value.
Maybe there are other positions that you know have less in value and you could do a little bit of tax loss harvesting and rebalance that portfolio so it's in the right risk profile for you. Well, I'm not sure if you watched any of our segments about the micro retirements that Gen Z and millennials are powering, but I mean, look, it's got a lot of us trying to think about kicking the tires on that in the interim period of time, but managing investments right now, which is something that you you started to touch on there a moment ago as well.
How are you seeing people manage investments as they are trying to figure out where they can disperse cash versus where they also need to continue making sure they're being aggressive in their saving and investing habits as well. So, you talked about this with your uh prior guest Dave, this idea of liquidity.
People are really focused on liquidity in their portfolio. And so, you can think of that as a line of credit, you know, that's backed by their investments. You can think of that as more liquid investments and making sure you have access to cash in a bank account as well. So, people are really focused on this liquidity profile.
Then from there looking at their mid to long-term investment strategy and trying to stay the course with the risks that they've signed up for based on three factors. The goal, the time horizon or duration of the investment because time in the markets, Brad, you know this is better than market timing.
We've seen, you know, the ups and downs of the markets, best and worst days, very close together. We just saw it over the past couple weeks, right? Watched them watched them firsthand. So you don't want to turn and burn your portfolio by following the herd. So sticking with that plan and then dollar cost averaging into that plan so that you ride the ups and that you invest on the dips.
Brad, that's really the core approach that we see investors taking right now. I still have videos on my phone from some of the worst days and some of the best days that we've seen for major averages while I was on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. Michael, thanks so much for taking the time here with us today breaking this down. Thank you, Brad.
I appreciate it.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_UAzAZwmfRg&t=7s
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English (auto-generated)
[Music] [Applause] Are you worried about your retirement accounts, your 401k, your IRA, your Roth accounts? The tariffs have you down? Does the volatility in the market have you down? Are you worried about what to do with your money? Well, here to talk with me about that and other things is Dr. Preston Cherry.
He's the author of a new book called Wealth in the Key of Life, and he's also the CEO of Concurrent Wealth Management. Preston, welcome. Ah, nice to see you again, Bob. Lots to talk about. Oh, a lot to talk about. So, let's start with where I began, which is a lot of folks are nervous about their retirement accounts.
And I'll just start by this very short story, which is I serve as the trustee of our town's retirement fund. It's a fund that will uh create the pensions for firemen and policemen and DPW workers. And I have to say folks are a little bit worried about their pensions at the moment as are many other people who are worried about whether their 401k will become a 2011k.
Well, what advice do you have for folks? Well, that's very valid. Number one, and so folks are worried about, like you said, where are these tariffs going to do to their pockets and and their pocketbooks and their portfolios? I mean, so how do people grocery shop and how people prepare for retirement? Right.
And I I think proximity to to retirement either four or five years before or four or five years out is very important. you mentioned your your pension fund and you know it has several you know million in it's it's a nice chunk of change there and for those nearterm pension folks they're going to get their checks and and so pensions have a longer time horizon so those folks that are 10 15 20 years out okay you know uh worrying about the fund coming down to say you know you know a lesser amount then yes I mean because that's just like social
security Right. Social Security right now is paying out fully. It's a pay as you go. And those folks that are in retirement, they're they're having their social security checks now. That said, you at the surplus is about to run out. And are we going to get the question is are we going to get uh 70 80 90% cents on the dollar? Now for those if this uh you know tariff activity and economic activity happens two three four years in a row then yes that could severely impact those that are expecting their pension checks say you know five seven
10 years out. Yeah. So for folks who have a 401k it's not a pension it's a defined contribution plan. What they put in is what they'll get out. Uh and and they're worried about the effect of tariffs on their retirement accounts. They're worried about the market volatility. They're worried about the possibility of a recession and some even say stagflation for those folks.
What's your advice? Well, preserve and protect that. But but don't panic. I mean that I know that's hard to do because you know when we had these shocks to the system, Bob. Uh we have, you know, financial crisis.com, right? Geopolitical risk and wars. These shock co these are shocks to the system and folks always ask what's different this time and this time we have uh self-induced uncertainty and that's a little harder to swallow um because when you talk about geopolitical risk whether it be war or economical or political risk inside the uh the borders
of the country uh those tend to happen in market cycles and they are true uh unex economic and market cycles and they are true unexp expected uncertainty. But folks say, you know, in many categories, Bob, this a pill hard to swallow, which is why are you bringing stuff on yourself? And and for those folks, this is what feels different this time.
However, same uh principles which is not to panic because an outright sell out of the market tends to miss those uh 10 best days uh of of the market and and and that helps preserve your portfolio, helps with uh you know outliving your income as well because as we saw last week or in the week before uh there was a lot of red on the board for about 4 days and then as soon as the administration act uh announced a pause there was a 12% day in the market the next day.
Nobody could have predicted that. However, if you remain stayed invested in the market with adjustments, we'll talk about that in a minute. But if you not panic sell all the way out, then at least some of your portfolio is exposed to the market during those recovery days and periods after uh long long-term shocks. Yeah. So, after long-term shocks, I think people also need to have a long-term horizon.
So when I think about the the 2000 debacle, it took I think 6 years for the market to recover the large caps and even longer for the small caps. uh also with 08 I think forget the exact period of time but it took a couple three years for the market to recover from '08 and and likewise 2020 right we've had a was a faster recovery I think in the 2020s the co era but nonetheless um if we look to the the 2000s which sometimes people refer to as the lost decade uh there is this notion that you do have to have a long-term time horizon the market may
not recover um uh for some period of time but if you have a long-term time horizon you can withstand these long-term shocks. Yes. And you know, bare markets, we haven't gotten there yet, but we're we're probably going into one. They they tend to last 18 to 24 months and then uh have the actually bare markets are a little bit shorter and then the recovery periods to get there uh are about like you said 10 uh two years something like that, right? Uh so what what will you have to have cushion in your portfolio so not paddic
and then we have another couple I love alliteration you know preserve and protect here's another one slight pivots slight pivots in your portfolio there is nothing wrong with uh making tactical shifts and raising some cash in order to help smooth out the sideways or bumpy ride in the economy for the next six to 18 months perhaps uh in order to have some cash at the ready.
That way can not uh you know severely affect your lifestyle now uh either you know in your high income years or whatever income years you are those four or five years before retirement or those four or five years after retirement have some cash on hand so you don't pull out everything out of your portfolio and panic cell and have that what's left to experience the recovery when it does happen.
Right? So, if the analogy is you're a pilot in a fighter jet right now and the plane is going down, uh it doesn't mean it's going to hit the ground and don't push the ejector seat. Stay in the plane. It it might get a little bumpy and rocky, but uh you you should be able to pull out of this decline. Yeah. Yes.
You know, and and too, it's also too uh if you're in using that air fighter analogy, if you do eject, right, uh there is a high survival rate as long as the parachute works, right? There's a parachute work, right? And that parachute, Bob, is having some of that cash available in your uh in your your brokerage or your savings, your high yield savings account, all that in order to help protect your other portfolio.
Also too, it it's a good time to uh perhaps uh shift the allocations in your or readjust them. So, doing some rebalancing in your portfolios. Also too, Roth conversions for those that want to uh you know pay taxes on a lower portfolio amount and also tax loss harvesting for those brokerage accounts, not the retirement accounts, but those brokerage accounts uh showing you know pocketing those type of losses and offset gains when uh when the market and the economy is doing well.
And here's another thing as I close which is it is when your portfolio is up and the economy is doing well. I ask folks, please take those some of those games, not all of them, but some of them in your taxable brokerage accounts because it feels good to win a little bit. So now during these times where yes, uh folks are uh losing and and they need to be affirmed about those feelings, then uh hopefully you won't be uh avoidant and going ahead and trimming those losses because you have offsetting uh you know, losses and gains. Yeah,
President, it's refreshing to hear you talk because so often we talk to people and they'll say, "Oh, stick to your plan, whatever that plan may be, but you seem to be suggesting it's okay to tinker and and make some tactical moves to take advantage of the opportunities and avoid the risk that might be there.
" Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. I mean, if you if somebody came to you and and it was thunderstorming and lightning outside and they were like, you know, uh don't worry about this umbrella or anything like that. Just keep walking down the street, right? you don't have any rain boots or anything like that. That would sound crazy, right? So, so somebody if somebody folks, hey, you know what? Here's some rain boots.
Here's an umbrella a little bit, right? That way you can keep walking down the street uh with a little bit of protection, right? And and hopefully to rain with society. And I and I'll say this too, not everything has to be worrisome. uh if you if folks do have the opportunity to you know perhaps buy some positions on sale enter the market uh right now then that's also suggested as well it depends on all your what you what your positions are and your life cycle your life stage your risk capacity all that uh however I was just in New York the other day and there
was a sale at at at Gap my wife loves Baby Gap and uh Baby Gap is not it's not cheap it used to be cheap when I was a young but my point about is there was a big sale and so yes we take advantage of sales and other stuff so this uh could be an opportunity to take buy some stuff on sale on the market as well. Yeah.
So one thing that we know is many young workers middle-aged workers are saving for retirement with their employer 401k and they're using target date funds where they may not have the same advantage to sort of make tactical moves because the manager is making these moves on their behalf. Any thoughts about what folks who own target day funds ought to be doing besides biting their fingernails? Sure.
I mean, you can reduce your exposure to target day funds. Again, if you're in that pocket, that that's that 3 to 5 years before retirement or 3 to 5 years after. And if you're in 3 to 5 years before retirement, that uh target date fund is probably already making the adjustments to, you know, out of the market just naturally, you know, the way target dates fund, right? taking some risk off the table.
So instead of a say 80 20 you know equities to to to to fixed income 7030 6040 well perhaps your target date fund is already at 50/50. Uh so my my advice for those or my suggestion for those that are uh nearing retirement is to check the the actual target date. I know that's that sounds cliche, but check that target date because that target date is going to match how that fund is uh adjusting the equity to fix fixed income ratio on your portfolio.
For those that are 20s, 30s, well, you have you have what the greatest gift on earth at your ex at your exposure, which is time, right? And uh for for most of those folks again depending on your individual situation and all that uh because you have time it you could probably just keep that target day fund and and it's over or or and it's heightened exposure to equities.
All right. Uh Preston we have to take a short break and when we come back I promise we're going to talk about the very thing that I wanted to talk about as well which is your new book which is called Wealth in the Key of Life. Don't go away. Welcome back to Decoding Retirement. I'm talking to Preston Cherry.
He is the author of a new book called Wealth in the Key of Life. He's also the CEO of Concurrent Wealth Management. He's in Green Bay right now. And uh I'm guessing you're a Packers fan, right Preston? Well, yeah. Packers and and the Chiefs. So, so hometown is Houston, birthtown is Kansas City, a live town is the Packers. And you know the historical uh Super Bowl battle back in Super Bowl one and two with the Packers and the Chiefs.
It's one of I think I was all of maybe 10 years old when I watched the very first uh game in ' 67 which was a fantastic game from memory if memory serves. Packers won. It was Yeah. And then the Chiefs won the next one I think. Yeah. So all right President let's talk about your new book.
We uh you have a number of sort of sayings in the book. One of which is called the six alignment system which frames how people can improve their relationship with money. And goodness knows lots of people could stand to do that. Tell us more about that. Yeah, sure. Uh, you know, everybody needs a a system, an approach. And and I I I'm a fan of being giving yourself grace during your life and money journey, compassion, right? Because if you open up the heart Bob then you open up the mind because people the order of operations is know the person and then
enter in the process so people can start progressing on their journey wherever that uh life's course is. So the 6A alignment system is a framework for that which is you know admitting where you are in your journey wherever it is right it doesn't necessarily have to be from a trial or or somewhere that you're suffering it could be from a high point as well like going into retirement right so admitting where you are acknowledge what you're feeling at that time very important uh how do you feel you have regret shame judgment want to be better
whatever it may be and that's kind of like cleaning the pallet uh where you're doing a little wine tasting you got to take a swig of water between right and that's that's that process of just going through that then you prepared yourself now to take action and that's the fun part now you say okay my pallet is clean now I can go forward and then the last part is align aspire achieve align your life and money and have them work as partners right and then what are your aspirations how do you how does your retirement look like for you right how
does your for gen X how is your high income life look like right now and and talking about the sandwich generation. How does that look far as your aspirations? And then go about achieving them and and have the permission to prosper. Bob, you know, a lot of folks say, you know, I'm looking left, I'm looking right, I'm looking at the Joneses, I'm looking uh you know, what everybody else is doing.
My dad always says, keep your blinders on, son. Look straight, right? And go about you have the permission to thrive and prosper the way you want, right? Um President, is it hard work to do this? I mean it takes it sounds like you know it doesn't like happen naturally right it doesn't but you know it takes courage I call it the sea of C's so you have courage uh commitment consistency and then compounding and the the other one is is compassion right and if you have this approach uh it's it's progress not perfection and if you go to just take
just start just start and that's take that's the courage give yourself some grace That's the compassion part. And then once you commit with some consistency, then the return on life, return on your investments and portfolio and then also your return on all aspects of financial planning by the way, whether it be estate, insurance, tax, whatever may be, right? Those healthy decisions that are aligned with your life and money start compounding over time and you start seeing the change in your finances and in your uh your
well-being overall. Yeah. a journey of what uh 10,000 miles starts with the first step. Something like that. Every time. Every time. And I'm not a promoter of being cherry on top. I guess that's pun intended for from my last name. But but to your point, not everything is easy, but it can be uh somewhat enjoyable.
And uh along the way, and this is what I mean, there's award days, Bob, and then there's reward days. All right? If let's take retirement for example the day that you retire right that's an award that's like that's like creating a music album and that was the process the process is the reward that is you get to be in the journey and then when you end up on Billboard or whatever award it is and that award day you get award for the process.
So the point about it is is yes it can be challenging at times but if you look at it through you know I get the opportunity to design the life that I want life and money then I'm being rewarded for being in the process. So, all right. So, Preston in the book, you have the six A's. You mentioned the four C's.
You also have the four T's. Tell us about that. As you can see, I love alliteration, right? I love it. And trial, triumph, transition, and transformation. Uh, money doesn't always have to be uh from trial and trauma. That said, investigating your relationship with money, Bob, past, present, and future will help flush out those trials.
And it'll also help uh analyze and to look through a lens of your triumphant moments, those milestone moments in life, whether it be a a new a new career, right? They could be had some stock options, a windfall, right, coming to your pocket or or retirement, a child birth, a grandchildren, whatever it may be. Those are triumphant moments.
Then it's like, okay, what do I want to do next? Because see, retirees sometimes have a a hard time imagining themselves in retirement and not only will not live fully in their retirement far as life well-being. They won't take advantage of their money either. Right? So, it's a willingness to transition that's the other tage whatever it may be and then uh transform transform the way that you are living into your ideal life. All right.
Make that transformation. And I'll end with this is that Michael Jackson had a famous song man in the mirror. So person in the mirror if you want to look at it like that and say and at the end of the song Bob he said make that change. All right. And and that's that uh that's for that's that transformation I'm talking about. Yeah.
So Preston uh you have a certified financial planner designation as do I. But you also have another designation called the certified financial therapist. And the merging of these two uh knowledge designations makes for I think a unique experience for you. Uh tell us how you are able to sort of influence the perspective of people having a truly successful retirement given those two designations.
Yes, absolutely. you know uh people have to see themselves in their financial plan and if they don't then there's no stick to stick tuitiveness to the plan right and this is why it always goes back to the the people centered process and people like oh that's cliche that well that doesn't mean anything but you know what if you don't then people won't even start the plan won't commit to a plan won't enjoy the the prospering of the plan right and I always say if folks can see their preferences their life stage which is points right their
purpose and then the their their financial plan will then prosper. All right. So, more P's more alliteration. But I if folks can uh rarely are folks asked, you know, about themselves and to see themselves, investigate themselves, discover, and I get this question often, Bob, is you know what, I've never been asked that or you know, thank you for asking because then now people see their their feelings turn into f the numbers of finances and then now you can flourish.
Yeah. So, uh, Preston, talk about maybe about how you've helped, uh, people apply the principles of your book in their real lives to achieve a satisfying retirement. You know, here at Decoding Retirement, we're we're always fond of asking our guests to provide some actionable advice. So, this is my request here. Absolutely.
So, I had one client one time and it they they said, "Well, they ex happen to have like $8 million into their to their name." Right. And this was liquid assets, Bob. So, I don't know about you, but I think I can make $8 million work. All right. Right. And then the question was, uh, I'm going to work a couple more years.
And then they said, we're going to retire. But they were like, you know what? How about working one more year at a shot at a 50/50 $5 million payout? Now, mind you, they were going to get a bonus the next two years, right? With about for about 500,000 in their equity, stock compensation. So, that's another million dollars if you work two years.
Well, it was a 50/50 shot and probably less that they were going to get this magical payout from the company that was going to be bought, right? So, the the question is is what does that third year mean to you, right? And you want to get to living life. If you're in your mid-50s, I mean, you could go out and, you know, transition, transform, right? D.
And so, we talked through that for uh several months. It took about six. And uh what happened is is that the person ended up retiring after two years. And that payout never happened because this is a client I had for about three years, right? And they called me back and they said that payout never happened, by the way.
And I said, how did you feel about it if they would have paid out anyway? They said, you know what, that that last year wasn't worth it. You know, so that's one one way of aligning your your life ideal life design with your finances and asking a question like what is that 5050 payout mean to you? Does it mean more? Do you value it more than getting into getting on with the getting on now and enjoying the life that you've uh saved and invest for? Yeah.
Uh Preston, I really have enjoyed chatting with you. I'm afraid we've run out of time, but I really want to thank you for sharing your knowledge and wisdom with us and talking about your book. I know we didn't get to all the chapters and but I'll I'll invite you to come back on a future episode and we can maybe talk about the four Z's or the four Y's or whatever other acronyms that you have in the book.
All good. Thank you for having me. And the book aligns with Stevie Wonders songs in the key key of life for those music lovers. Yeah. Well, that wraps up this episode of Decoding Retirement. We hope we provided you with some actionable advice to help you better plan for or live in retirement. And don't forget, for the latest retirement news and analysis, check out yahooinance.com.
This content was not intended to be financial advice and should not be used as a substitute for professional financial services. [Music]
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ypx_jJQzUnU
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
[Music] General Motor is pulling its 2025 earnings guidance and pausing share buybacks amid tariff uncertainty. This as White House press secretary Caroline Levit confirms President Trump will sign an executive order on auto tariffs today expected to soften the impact of levies on the sector.
Joining me now Michael TD Cowan equity analyst. Always great to speak with you. What does all of this mean for GM? scrapping guidance, freezing pri buybacks, a net income slide. Where does it leave you on the stock? Sure. Yeah. Uh, thank you for having me. So, really no surprises, a solid quarter from GM, a modest beat uh, pretty much all around.
I think it does make sense given the near-term uncertainty to pause uh, the open market share purchases. We've seen other companies do that in the space as well. And given to your point just kind of yesterday's developments with tariffs, I think the company wanted a couple more days to digest the news before they come back to the market and update the 2025 guidance.
So makes a lot of sense to us, but overall the quarter was solid and now we're eagerly awaiting uh Thursday's update. And talk me through the pull forward dynamic and whether or not you're seeing that in GM's earnings here because obviously net income sliding in the first quarter. To what extent does that indicate to you that consumers weren't interested in pre- purchasing from GM before the tariffs were put into effect? Yeah, we we did see some some signs of a pre-by in the US for new vehicles in the month of March.
Uh although you some of that did come out of GM's inventory. So inventory ended up lower than expected. Uh we do still see some pentup demand though in the US. We do think underlying auto demand is relatively strong. ong within consumers from our survey work at TD Cowan. Consumers do want to increase their cars per household in the next couple of of years per our survey back in in February.
So underlying auto demand trends were strong throughout Q1, but you're right, we did see some pre-by uh in March. We could see maybe some of that in into the second quarter. Uh but overall, if you look at GM's market share performance in Q1, their pricing performance in Q1, the success of their new products, the company does continue to execute well and perform very well overall.
It's high on the international spectrum here. We saw good strength in China and and elsewhere other other countries as well too. Um do you see that continuing? Um I I saw that EBIT uh for international was up close to uh 150% and China over over it was negative in China. It was up positive 45 million EBIT for uh for the China income.
Do you see that continuing or is that part of that pull forward you were talking about? Yeah, the international probably didn't see pull forward. Uh GM International did come in a little bit below our forecast in Q1, but you're right, they have been making some progress in China. It's been very challenging for GM in China. They've done a number of restructuring actions there.
So, we do see prospects for improvement there over the next couple of years uh in the international business, but most of the pull forward uh really was concentrated in the US starting uh in the month of March. And I want to broaden the conversation out a bit because you cover so many of the automakers. President Trump is expected to soften auto tariffs at a rally tonight.
I I'm curious which of the automakers that you cover do you anticipate rallying the most when we wake up to the opening bell tomorrow morning off the back of those announcements of softened tariffs for automakers? Absolutely. We're still waiting a lot more detail and definitely some open questions and clarifications. But if you kind of look at just the relief on the parts tariff themselves, you that would benefit companies uh that have a fair amount of of of US footprint um and Ford certainly has more US vehicle manufacturing footprint than GM. Tesla
of course produces all their vehicles uh in in the US in terms of the North America footprint. So those companies would stand to benefit uh more just because they're more exposed to uh parts tariffs. So any relief and again waiting for for more detail but any relief on parts tariffs would acrewue kind of all else being equal to companies that are are more exposed to them uh in the context of the overall tariff situation.
GM of course would be exposed as well but still a significant footprint in both Mexico and Canada. Um and so we'll have to kind of see whether there's any future uh relief on on those as well. But for now, from what we've read, uh the immediate relief seems to be focused on on the parts uh predominantly as well as some of the stacking tariffs uh that that have been in question as
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LUcv5ENsVok
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
[Music] Good morning everyone and welcome to the daily trader with Kevin Hinks. I have two paper money trades for you today on two highprofile names. We'll look at Tesla that's in the news all the time. Something we should always be checking on. And then we'll look at Starbucks that has earnings coming out well after the bell today.
So before the open tomorrow morning. So we'll look at those two. Let's get to our first trade of the day and that is Tesla. Now the chart on Tesla is kind of interesting because it looks like this 29166 is that 200 day moving average and kind of a key level here in Tesla. So we're watching for any break through that 291 level and a close there for a confirmation if you watch or uh adhere to technical analysis.
So the trade we looked at here was going out two weeks to the May 16th expiration, buying the 280 call and then going to this week May 2nd expiration and selling the 300 call. Why did we do that? Well, we wanted to give ourselves a little more duration since we are post uh event earnings event and implied volatility has come down.
So, we're moving out our dates ever so slightly. And they expect a move for this week about $19.90. So, right around that $20 level. So, buying the 280 in May 16th, selling the 300 in May 2nd. The debit on that was about 1520. The stock's moving a lot. It's about 1540 now. Tesla's moving a lot today as our or all stocks, frankly.
So the risk on the trade is the debit paid. The target on this trade is that short strike of $300. And one adder, you will get a chance because this is a twoe spread, you will get a chance to extend duration into that May 9th expiration if you choose to. If you get a move up towards the 300 level, of course, the first choice is to close the trade if the market allows you to do that.
So, uh, again, the risk on this trade is the debit paid and the target on this trade up towards that $300 level. This is one way a trader can look at this name. All right. Now, let's look at our second one, and that is Starbucks. Now, Starbucks has earnings coming out. I'll confirm exactly when it is. I believe it is after the bell today or tomorrow morning.
It is tomorrow morning before the open, but you have to have the trade in by the end of the day today. So, tomorrow morning before the open. The trade we're looking at here in Starbucks is something very similar. Buying the May 16th, selling the May 2nd. In this case, looking at the expected move about $6 and change.
We're gonna buy the 84 call in the May 16th and then sell this week's the earnings event uh 90 call right in line with that expected move. The debit about 285 is trading about 280 now. So about a nickel lower than we put it in. But again the risk on this trade is the debit paid. If it's 285 or it's 280 around that uh level that is the risk on this trade.
The target is that 300 level in line with the expected move. One last thing, you are buying a 56 implied volatility and selling a 100 volatility. Buying the lower, selling the higher. A call diagonal in Starbucks. Remember this stock has been quite beat up lately. What last month down 14%, three months down 16%. So, CEO Brian Nickel, let's see if he's got that turnaround coming in Starbucks again, uh, two trades, same dates, May 16th, selling May 2nd. Two call diagonals.
The risk on both trades is the debit paid. The target on both trades is the short strike. That is $300 on Tesla and $90 on Starbucks. This is something a trader might consider. That's our show for today everyone. We'll see you tomorrow with another edition of the Daily Trader. [Music]
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OvGRC0-h8Bk&pp=0gcJCYQJAYcqIYzv
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
As markets continue to see volatility amid changing tariff policy, investors are looking for ways to diversify their portfolios. One way is alternative investing. Joining me now on this, we've got in studio live in Living Color, Dave Danahoo, who is the Franklin Templeton Wealth Management Alternatives head of America's. Great to see you again.
Great to see you, Brad. So, let's dive into this. As we're thinking about some of these alternative investments, there's so many different alts. It could be anything from uh real estate to private equity to, you know, Pokemon cards if you wanted to think about it that way. But there's also different levels of liquidity.
So, let's kind of rank these and perhaps go in order from the most liquid to the most illquid of what we're seeing in certain alternative investments. Where does one start? Yeah, it's it's a great question, Brad. If you think about liquidity, generally speaking, you're talking about the duration, how long I'm going to hold an asset.
private equity, primary private equity would be considered one of the more illlquid components of of private markets. You move into things like private credit, generally speaking, the duration of that asset is shorter and private real estate at sometimes perhaps even shorter than private credit. So that's how I would think about the liquidity profile, but the vehicle you invest in matters to how frequently an individual investor can or cannot access their liquidity and that's a key part of the business as well. Okay.
And so which alternative investments from your assessment of the market are the most liquid right now? So if you think about what's going on in the market, it reminds me of our last conversation. Tariff concerns, concerns of an economic slowdown, potentially uh a heightened risk of recession. That's introduced volatility to the public markets.
But remember, private markets price off fundamentals, not sediment and volatility. Generally speaking, the vehicles, private equity, private real estate, and private credit that have been built for the individual investor offer chances at liquidity monthly or quarterly. So, we advocate using them, using them in a responsible way because of what they do for your portfolio, potential to enhance returns, decrease volatility, and people are seeing the power of that right now.
But it shouldn't be 50, 60, 70% of your allocation. It's a part of your allocation where you can afford to give up liquidity for a period of time to enhance portfolio outcomes. And so with that in mind, how do investors who are just trying to round out their portfolio a bit more and add some more of that longer term duration on through an alternative investment? How do they begin dipping their toe in perhaps so to speak within this type of investment strategy? It's a great question.
A couple ideas. One, work with a trusted professional. Work with an adviser. Organizations like ours, and there's many out there that do the same, have built websites that are um direct access for individual investors, no login required, where you can learn about the asset classes and the role that they play in portfolios.
At the end of the day though, history would show you that allocating 10, 20, or in some cases maybe more to these asset classes as a percentage base of an overall portfolio can provide real value. And so with that in mind, as you're thinking about what type of returns you should expect longer term, what what's a good rule of thumb as you're looking at and assessing alternative investments? Appropriate disclosures out of the way that not everything is created equal and you have to pick the right manager.
Generally speaking, if history holds, you should expect a couple hundred basis points, a couple percentage higher return out of the private markets than you do in the public market equivalent. So let's break that down. Sure. Private equity, you should expect higher returns than public equity over the long term.
And you're seeking growth there. Private real estate, you're seeking growth in income, just like you would be in a public REIT, you should expect a couple hundred basis points, full market cycle of higher return. Private credit, you're seeking income. Same to bonds, a couple hundred basis points full market cycle of higher return.
All with meaningfully less volatility, which helps smooth portfolio outcomes. What is the difference in upfront capital that's necessary for alternative investments kind of and I know it's differing but on aggregate as it compare the the great news is the industry has really evolved. So a decade ago historically the only folks that could allocate to alternatives were the ultra wealthy or institutional investors.
As an industry we've created these vehicles that are referred to as semi-liquid or perpetual vehicles. And in addition to letting money in and out more frequently, they they are made available to a broader accreditation of client. You have to have a lower net worth to invest and you can invest at a lower minimum.
So these tools are really becoming democratized, more available to the broad investor base, which is a good thing if you think about the outcomes folks are trying to achieve with their portfolios. Dave, great to see you. Thanks for joining us in studio. Thanks for having me, Brett.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F0jcfe1ChZI
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
Markets have recovered a bit from the losses over the past few weeks, but a lot can change in a short period of time. At the highs, the S&P 500 touched 6,147 in midFebruary, but subsequently fell to a 52- week low of 4835 on April 7th, meaning in less than 2 months time, the S&P 500 fell more than 20%.
That is a massive fall for such a short period of time. We're not talking about an individual stock. We're talking about the largest index, the most watched index in the world, made up of 500 different companies, weighted heavily towards technology and the Magnificent 7. Speaking of the Mag 7, during that period, the Round Mag 7 ETF fell nearly 30%.
There's still plenty to be concerned about with trade policy tensions, global tensions, and the sell America trade going on. Now, I'm not sitting here saying I'm trading out and and selling out of all of my positions because let's be honest, that's certainly not the case for a lot of investors here, but we're starting to see the implications of a lot of this trade war that's been going on.
Looking at this chart here from the Financial Times, the US markets are off to their worst start compared to their global peers in more than 30 years. Shipping volume from China to the US is plummeting at a steep pace. And according to the Port of LA, incoming shipments next month are expected to drop by nearly 40%.
These are real concerns that can definitely impact GDP and a lot of the damage has already been done. Companies can't just trade gears that fast. There's investment that has to be made to onshore a lot of manufacturing and things like that, and that could take years. As such, if you are an investor that has some concerns, rightfully so, you may need to maneuver your portfolio a bit.
That doesn't mean we need to sell out of everything, but there are certain segments that can perform quite well in slower economic times or even during a recession. As such, in today's video, we're going to talk about some of those stocks and ETFs, and we're going to talk about five stocks to consider buying in the month of May to bring stability to your portfolio during these uncertain times.
But like always, before we unveil these, I would truly appreciate it if you could show your appreciation by simply checking that like button down below, subscribe to the channel to help push this to a bigger audience, and let's jump into it. Hey everyone, Mark Rousen here back for another video.
As always, I'm a CPA and not a financial adviser, so please do not take this as financial advice. And before we begin, let me quickly thank today's video sponsor, which is the Mly Fool. The Mly Fool has a ton of great resources and products available for investors of all different levels. And right now, you can check out their 10 best stocks to buy simply going to fool.com/mark.
All right, let's jump back into this very important video taking a look at five positions to consider during the month of May. Beginning with stock number one, which is going to be Berkshire Hathaway, stock ticker BRK.B. Yes, this is Warren Buffett. But when it comes to Berkshire, although it is an individual stock, it's much more aligned with an ETF because they own many private businesses and they have their wellfollowed equity portfolio.
The company currently has a market cap of $1.1 trillion and over the past 12 months, shares are up over 30% and year-to- date up over 15%. Both from a 12-month perspective and a year-to- date, Bergkshire is easily outperforming the S&P 500. And early on, dating back to the past few years, Buffett had been getting some flak for even from the likes of me for selling and raising a ton of cash.
But he has ramped up that selling pressure and raising a record level of crash, more than 320 billion dollars over the past few years. And during the past few years, Bergkshire has underperformed the S&P 500. But of late, as the S&P has pulled back, it has all changed in the favor of Berkshire. Looking at valuation, when it comes to Berkshire, it's definitely not a cheap stock right now.
Hence the outperformance. A lot of investors have already been pouring money. Why? Because it is a defensive, a balanced investment. Looking at the chart here, you can see the stock moving up and to the right, which is what we like to see as investors. But the 100 day moving average is the area I am targeting to buy, which gives me a target buy price of near $500 per share when talking about Berkshire Hathway.
And that leads us to stock number two, which is Proctor and Gamble, stock ticker PG. When you're looking at an economy that is slowing or maybe even falling into a recession, the thing that you want to talk about or think about as an investor is where do consumers need to spend money. They don't need to go out and buy that new car or that new wardrobe.
They don't need to go out and buy that new pair of shoes. What they do need is they need the lights on. They need the gas on. So, utilities is going to be key. They need food on the table. So, consumer staples is going to be important. Hence, Proctor and Gamble, one of the largest consumer staple stocks on the market today.
The company currently has a market cap of $380 billion and over the past 12 months, shares are exactly even and year-to date down just 3%. Shares of Proctor and Gamble have been under a little bit of pressure. Again, Proctor and Gamble is not a very volatile stock. It's not going to knock your socks off with growth and it's not going to collapse by any means.
But some of the pressure is leaning due in part to their recent earnings that they reported, which some of the guidance moving forward left investors hoping for more. But where a lot of pressure is right now is on tariffs, which is where Proctor and Gamble, where do they supply a lot of their products from? Could be China.
However, when it comes to Proctor and Gamble, they do have pricing power, highquality products. they should be able to pass some of those higher prices on to consumers. And over the years, Proctor and Gamble has been a company that generates strong amounts of free cash flow. And over the trailing 12 months, Proctor and Gamble has generated 15 billion.
And what does that do? It helps buy back stock and pay a growing dividend. Proctor and Gamble is a dividend king, meaning they have increased their dividend for more than 50 consecutive years. But Proctor and Gamble, they have done it for nearly 70 consecutive years. The dividend currently yields 2.6% and they have a 5-year dividend growth rate of 6%.
Looking at valuation, next year's earnings are expected to be $76 per share, giving the stock a forward PE multiple of just 22.8 times, which is slightly below the company's 10-year average of 24 1.5 times. So, you are getting a small discount. From an EV to Ebida perspective, shares trade at just 16 and a half times, which is below the company's 5-year average of 17 and a half times.
And looking at the chart here, you can see the stock has found some solid support over the past 12 months around $155 per share, which is an area I will be looking to target to buy the stock. And that leads us to stock number three, which is going to be SoFi Technology, stock ticker Sofi. And leading into 2025 under the current administration, one of their main focal points has been deregulation.
And there's not a segment out there or a sector out there that jumps for joy hearing that more than financials, especially SoFi. Again, not all financials are created equal because if we do endure slower economic times or fall into a recession, that could mean maybe slower volume for credit card companies.
But in the eyes of SoFi, this could be huge for their growth. The company currently has a market cap of $15 billion and over the past 12 months, check out these numbers. The stock is up more than 60%. However, year-to date down roughly 15%. Shares have been soaring of late, but if we go back from the start of 2022 to the end of 24, shares of SoFi drastically underperformed the S&P 500.
But what are some reasons to be optimistic about SoFi? Number one, they target highincome young adults. Number two is going to be centered around the advantage that they have from a technology perspective compared to legacy banks. And number three, which could be the largest, is due in part to student loans are all back on track.
This is a company that is expecting strong topline revenue growth in the coming years. And over the next two years, analysts are looking for roughly 20% topline growth. Analysts are expecting 50 cents of EPS next year, giving the stock a poultry 25x multiple, which is extremely low given the growth. This is a stock that's not currently in my portfolio as of this video, but come May, don't be surprised if you see it in the near term.
And if you're interested in seeing my entire portfolio and stock deep dives and staying up with the market at a one-stop shop, definitely sign up for my newsletter, the stock investor's edge. You can do it for free and join our Discord. Check out the link in the Discord down in the description below.
Given that this stock is a bit of a higher beta stock, it can be a lot more volatile and we're on unshaky ground right now when it comes to the stability of the market. Hence, the approach that I'm going to take when it comes to SoFi is not just buying it outright, but instead taking an option approach, selling a cash secured put with a strike price in the area of $9 to $10.
The premiums aren't huge on this stock, but it's also a low price stock. And you can see that $9 to$10 range based on this chart right here has been a decent area of support for the stock. And that leads us to stock number four, which is going to be Alibaba Group, stock ticker BABA. And what we just talked about with SoFi was the approach of options.
That's the same exact approach I'm going to take when it comes to Alibaba. Alibaba is a Chinese company and I try not to own Chinese companies because given the fact that the government can step in at any point, something we saw prior to the pandemic and I just didn't sit right with me. However, right now we are in an arms race to build the best and most powerful AI platforms, the US and China.
China's clearly behind, but getting their hands on Nvidia made chips has helped them close the gap. And with China determined to take the lead, that is definitely going to benefit the likes of Alibaba. The company currently has a market cap of $283 billion. And over the past 12 months, shares are up 55%, year-to- date, up 40%.
As I mentioned at the start of this video, the US is off to its worst start in more than 30 years as compared to its peers. And China, after a few horrible years in their market post pandemic, is finally starting to move in the right direction. When it comes to Alibaba, more specifically, they're a diversified business. They have e-commerce, cloud, advertising, subscription, and so much more.
They could be thought of in many ways as the Chinese version of Amazon. Looking at valuation, next year's earnings are expected to be $10.15 per share, which amounts to 13.5% growth year-over-year. And that gives the stock a forward PE of just 11.8 times, giving it also a PEG ratio below 1, making it look that much more intriguing.
But again, this is a stock I will likely play with options instead of buying outright. Looking at the chart here, you can see the stock is up against resistance, hovering around $120 per share. So, I will need to see a bit of a pullback first, but then I will be targeting a cash secured put around $95 per share.
And that leads us to stock number five, which actually isn't a stock, it's an ETF, and that is the JP Morgan Equity Premium Income ETF. Stock ticker JPI. So, a bit of cheating here, but again, with Jeppy, it's another way for those that are concerned about the near and medium-term economy and US markets.
Jeppy is a great way to not only add a solid amount of cash flow but defensive stability in many ways because when it comes to Jeeppy the way that they are set up is they sell out of the money S&P 500 call options. They also own underlying assets but when the index comes down the profitability of those option goes up which means they have more money to pass on to shareholders which means that distribution yield increases.
When it comes to Jeeppy, they currently have assets under management of $ 38 billion and over the past 12 months, shares are down 2% year-to- date down 4%. That is just the share amount there, not the total return, including the distribution. Jeeppy is an actively managed ETF, the largest actively managed ETF with a big emphasis, as I mentioned, on selling options centered around the S&P 500.
So, the intrigue behind Jeppy is that high distribution yield. Early on when Jeepy first launched that distribution yield was well north of 10%. And when S&P 500 as I mentioned earlier comes down it's more profitable to the likes of Jeppy. So right now during that shaky period and the S&P 500 pulling back their option selling has been extra profitable which you can expect a higher distribution payout in the coming months if that continues.
Speaking of the distribution, the yield currently sits above 8%. Which can help shield your portfolio during these uncertain times. The ETF also has an expense ratio of 0.35% which is actually much lower considering it's a actively managed ETF. Jeep is not a position that I plan to hold long-term, but in uncertain periods and if there's an area for me to park cash, I look to Jeppy or even the likes of Jeep Q as a place to park it.
So there we just looked at five different positions for you to consider in the month of May during these shaky periods. I showed you ways that I'm going to utilize options. I showed you ETFs and individual stocks. Down in the comments section, let me know which of these five examples that I went through today do you like best and could you see yourself potentially adding to your portfolio in May? And if you haven't done so, hit that like button down below, subscribe to the channel, and share this video with a friend so that we can continue to
push our story out to all and not leave any retail investor behind. Thanks so much for the support, and we'll see you in the next one. Take care.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jdQzIvf_zk4
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English - CC1
English (auto-generated)
all that breaking news coupled with earnings as well. So a lot to discuss. Kevin Greene is with us. What are you watching here. Good morning Kevin Greene. Good morning Nicole. Yeah definitely. I mean we see we're seeing around 20% of stocks in the S&P 500 in the green right now. So a little bit of, you know, selling activity taking place.
But after this decent run that we've had over the last five trading sessions here, it's not out of the ordinary that we actually do get a little bit of a pullback, especially when we have some economic data. It's going to be hitting the headlines here in the next 30 minutes or so. We have JOLTS data and then we'll have consumer confidence data.
And then tonight we'll have President Trump actually addressing the nation. I think the market's going to really be looking into that. But when you're looking at the longer term time frame chart here, 3600 still going to be our area of resistance kind of matches with that 50 day moving average that we kind of talked about yesterday.
The candle that we actually had yesterday was called a long leg doji. That just basically means that we had a pretty much neutral to potentially a bearish reversal reversal signal here. Bears try to knock the market down, but we were able to recover on the intraday basis here. But that is kind of like a let's just say like a yellow light type of candle structure here.
And if we actually do get a break, if I'm looking at it from an intraday standpoint here, the 5000 level first one, that's going to be the area of immediate support that we want to be able to hold here. Looks like we are trying to bounce off. But if we break below 5642, the downside is really what I'm looking at. And then to the upside, the first area of resistance for today, 5560.
And then we also had the 5600 level earlier this morning when we were looking at morning movers here. He actually had some bullish activity when it came to the options flow. And now it was early in the session. Obviously there's a lot that's going to be going on here today, but the market is still positioning for a potential move to the upside here, which is definitely possible.
I think we probably get to a little bit more of an area of resistance here to the upside when we see another, let's say 100 points, 80 points to the upside in the S&P 500, that will be a critical area of resistance for us to be able to match here. But overall, once again a little bit of a rotation top heavy. Amazon's getting hit because of some of the commentary from the white House here.
Nvidia got a little bit of a pullback this morning. So if we don't have the Mega-cap names participating you're going to need to have some of these other smaller sectors really trying to outperform. And right now it just seems like that's not really the case. But anything's possible going throughout this day. And so much as the markets are opening here we're seeing consumer staples down, materials higher.
Honeywell Sherwin-Williams, Boeing and Salesforce are leading Amazon, Procter and Gamble McDonald's Coke to the downside. Those are just some of the names here on the Dow Jones Industrial Average on the move. And you're also watching the VIX which is now sitting at 25.45. You know really behaving quite nicely not showing any signs of extreme volatility.
Not any time soon. Yeah I would say it's still a little bit elevated compared to where the average is. But you're right it's stagnating. Right. And we're seeing it kind of stalling out. Now you could say that that's a good thing in some respects. Maybe the market's kind of still on edge for the most part in the near term.
But we've been able to manage and digest. On the other side of that you could say okay, a stalling out. Why is it not really crushing lower here? And so what I'm looking at is that that VIX minus the front month VIX futures contract seeing a small a little backwardation. It's still in a backwardation phase here. But you're seeing a small little uptick here today but nothing out of the ordinary.
We start seeing that that line actually continuing to move back to the upside here. That probably is going to signify that we might have some additional volatility and selling pressure coming back into the market. But you're right. You're seeing stabilization and volatility. We probably will not see a massive crush in volatility Nicole, until we get after this week just because of the economic data.
And hopefully the economic data comes in line with the Street's expectations here. Relieve some of that worry, especially when you're looking at the jobs market. So overall once again we're looking actually pretty. We're looking okay. I would still get a little bit cautious that maybe we have a little bit of a pullback just because of the run that we've had.
But I don't see anything major in the positioning on the options front right now that says we're going to have a massive, you know, 3%, 4% move to the downside. We have some bearish positioning on Friday, but I did not see a lot of that really being followed up yesterday in in yesterday's session. And last but not least we're looking at bond yields.
Look 4.22%. Not bad when you want it to come. If you want yields to come down right. Yeah. You want the yields to come down for the right reasons. Right. And right now we are actually seeing that move to the downside on a technical basis. We do have the MacD in a bearish formation. It did actually have that 12 EMA crossing below the 26.
And that 12 EMA actually just went below that zero line. So that means that the market or we might be seeing yields maybe moving a little bit lower here. I'm not sure if we're actually going to see the extremes that we saw around 3.9%, 3.95% or so. That was fairly aggressive. Market would probably be a little bit concerned if we got back to that level.
But you can make the case that 4.1% could be that bottom end of this range. And if we're actually able to hover around 4.1% to the downside in our range to around 4.5%, I think the market's going to be okay with that. The stabilization in yields, stabilization in dollars in the dollar really gives the equity market a little bit more confidence that they're able to reprice the fundamentals and then try to readjust and try to move higher here.
So nothing really aggressive on the yield front yet. But we have a lot of economic data. And if the data comes in a little bit negative Nicole this week I would say yields probably have a little bit more of a direction to the downside here. The last thing I will kind of comment on consumer confidence today is going to be the day that do we see the market really still focusing on the soft data, or are we going to transition to more of the hard data? JOLTS is going to be a very delayed and stale number.
It's going to be pre-liberation day, so probably should be discounted significantly for the market. But consumer confidence is the one that I'm going to keep my eye out on, just to see if the market's really trying to shift to say, look, we know that the consumer right now is not feeling great. Purchasing managers right now are not feeling great, but are we seeing it in the data.
And if we're not seeing it in the hard data yet, the market might find that a little bit optimistic and that might be able to stabilize us and hold the floor here for equities. Yeah. And you know, as you talk about the lower yields that we have that helps technology to a certain extent because they're always borrowing a lot of money.
And it gives them some clarity going forward. Nasdaq could we have today and tomorrow could eke out a gain for this month of April. We're down about a half a percent on the index for the month. This may be the one of the four indices that can squeeze out a gain, but we'll have to see. We have
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vq3i9Dc8KL0
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English (auto-generated)
Let's get to Starbucks. That company reporting second quarter comp sales missing analyst estimates largely because of weakness in North America and in the US specifically. Comp sales fell by 2%. That is a bigger drop than analysts had anticipated. I believe this is the fifth consecutive quarter of declines in comps overall.
Uh second quarter comp sales overall for the company down 1%. Interestingly, one bright spot or at least on a relative basis was China. Comparable sales there were flat. Analysts had been looking for a drop of more than 2%. So that's an interesting detail here. It looks like adjusted earnings per share missing estimates by 8 cents coming in at 41 cents.
What's interesting is the tone in the statement at least is still relatively positive. Brian Nickel, the CEO of the company. He says, "My optimism has turned into confidence that our back to Starbucks plan is the right strategy to turn the business around and to unlock opportunities ahead. There's been some reporting about some technological changes and throughput changes that the company's made to try to get drinks and other products in the hands of customers faster.
" Um, so perhaps that's one of the things that he is referring to there. Uh, but Josh, we're seeing a quick uh little bit of a downdraft in the shares here. Yeah. Ending into this one, your stock was down about 10% this year. It's down about 5% over the past 12 months and we're kind of bouncing here in the after hours. Down about 2% right now.
China does get a lot a lot of attention, a lot of headlines because a lot of crosss there, macro pressure, competitive pressure, of course, throwing out trade war. I know analysts bring up the risk of US brand boycotts, but it isn't interesting that that they would come in flat like that. Um more commentary from the CFO as well saying while our financial results are far from Starbucks potential.
Uh Kathy Smith says, "We are working to build back a better business." She goes on to say, "We are developing new muscles to test, iterate, and scale quickly." Yeah. The only mention of tariffs in this statement, I'm sure it'll get mentioned on the call. The only mention in the statement is in the sort of disclaimers and disclosures at the end, risk factors for the company.
So, we'll see what they'd say in terms of tariff effect on coffee itself, for example, raw materials. Um, and also the whole issue of consumer confidence in this environment. Here with more on Starbucks latest quarterly results, let's get to Bernstein senior analyst Denal Gargulo. Um, thank you so much, Deno, for being here.
Um, and as we look at these numbers, how concerned are you about the US sales number just still seeing declines there? I'm not overly concerned. Um I would say that the transformation that Ryan Nikl and his new management team are trying to be putting in place is going to take some time. Change management doesn't come easy and also you need to be training the consumers onto the new Starbucks or I should say the back to Starbucks plan.
So it's going to take a bit of time for that to happen. Um at the same time as you pointed out a few minutes ago uh the tone seemed to be quite optimistic which might be indicating that some of the transformation initiatives are already working out and so it's a matter of scaling those into the United States know the plan that Brian Nichols has in place here you know speed up the service tailor the menu does he have the right plan the right strategy in place I I I I'm very confident this is the right strategy in space.
I think uh Starbucks was trying to be everything for everybody and not necessarily owning a specific space within the product as well as within the channels of distribution where you can really uh enlight the consumers. Uh today Brian Nickel is basically saying look we need to be owning one space really well and execute at the best of our capability and this is within our stores and coffee.
So forget about all the other distraction that can come in. Let's focus our strategy on what we do on where we are our best and then start to be reconquering the rest of this placement. So I think focus is the number one uh priorities for the company. But I would think that starting to be increasing the speed of operations to enable that is also paramount to uh allow consumers to have a little bit of a easier morning when they come in and they see um that a lot of other people are just in front of them in the line.
Um when do you think all of this is going to start to bear some fruit? Um I would say we um we might be seeing some pockets of opportunity already starting to be unlocked. I would be expecting this one already in the next uh couple of months, but for this one to be at scale, it's probably going to take some time.
I mean, we're probably talking about at least six months to a year until we get a real turnaround from an experience standpoint. Once again, there is a change management within the store. So training the baristas, but there is also a setting the right expectations with consumers, delight them enough, invite them back to the stores and give them the right experience so that they will want to come back.
So in the numbers, we're probably going to start to see that, you know, at least six months from now. You know, uh, China comp sales flat. That's actually better than the street was looking for. Curious what you make of that number. And how do you how do you see that China business developing from here? Well, that's an excellent question.
I I think the the real controversy on China is on the potential evolution of the geopolitical tensions between America, United States and China itself. Um clearly the competition has been rising but this is not news anymore. Uh the ramp up of lacking coffee and other formidable players in China has been going on for the past two to three years.
But what is new is that now there is more sentiment the worldwide sentiment shifting toward domestic brands also as a response to the increasing tariffs uncertainty that we see here in the United States. So the key question for investors is going to be are we going to start to see some boycots that are maybe comparable to the one that we had seen during the Middle East crisis and if so what does it mean for the future of Starbucks in China? Final question know just you know you look at the stock here heading into the print we were down about 10% this year
I'm just curious how you think about valuation for this one yeah I would say the valuation is um uh a little bit compressed considering that there is a a clear path toward the reaceleration of Starbucks if you think about how the the comp potential might be unlocked just purely from lapping of the traffic um we are going to start to see some material reaceration as I said for likely in you know in in in about 6 months from now when some of these initiatives are going to be starting in place but I would say from a riskreward
standpoint it's very hard to put any downgrade on the multiple at which Starbucks is running today and I would say the multiple today is not fairly reflecting all the upside potential that Starbucks has. So I see that the riskreward is tilting to the positive at least on a two to one basis. D great to have you on the show today.
Thanks for joining us.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EbBbsfHqJyw&t=16s
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
[Music] You're watching special coverage of Yahoo Finance. I'm Brad Smith alongside Madison Mills this morning. Treasury Secretary Scott Besson set to speak any moment now at the White House. You're looking at live photos from the White House. Just moments away from those remarks here.
We are going to get it over to our very own Jennifer Shamberger for a broader look at what we can expect this morning. If we do have Jennifer with us, we are going to go over to you, Jennifer. Good morning, Maddie. It's great to see you guys. Uh, today marks the first 100 days since President Trump took office and how befitting that the administration is trotting out Treasury Secretary Scott Besson.
given how central he is to trade and how central trade has been to the president's agenda here in the first 100 days. Of course, still so many question marks over how this will all play out, how these trade deals will come together, particularly when it comes to China. As you both know, we've been getting some mixed signals out of the administration when it comes to China.
The president signaling that perhaps he has had talks with China, but Secretary Besson batting that down, saying that no, we have to have tariffs come down before we can begin talks with China. And indeed, yesterday, China confirming Besson's side, saying there have been no talks whatsoever so far between the US and China.
Of course, Besson has said that these levels are unsustainable and given how high tariffs are on China, that should bring them back to the table. However, China not blinking at this point, saying that it's really up to the US to unilaterally bring down tariffs before talks can start. So, uh, clearly a staring contest ongoing here. We'll see if we get any new news from the secretary this morning as it pertains to China, though I wouldn't expect much.
I will be looking for any news around potential deals uh with India and South Korea. As the secretary has said, those are forthcoming. He had mentioned that we could see some details this week uh particularly on South Korea and I'm sure you saw this morning in the Wall Street Journal a report that uh the president looking to soften the blow when it comes to tariffs on automakers just as GM has uh pulled his its guidance for the year.
So curious whether uh the secretary will address those questions as well. Jen, how much expectation do we have around anything that he might say about exemptions? Because that's something that the market has paid close attention to and CEOs who have tried to had the have the ear of the president and his cabinet members as well.
You know, look, Brad, we'll see. Of course, the administration a couple weeks ago, the days all bund together now, um had said that they are uh going to create an exemption for smartphones, uh tablets, and semiconductors. At the same time, we do know that the USR is studying uh tariffs for semiconductors under section 232.
Don't know whether we'll see any news on that front. And to your point, when it comes to exemptions around those auto tariffs, as we're seeing reported out of the journal this morning, whether the secretary addresses that or not. I kind of have to wonder though given that today is actually the 100 day mark whether this is sort of meant to be a victory lap for hey you know we have had really high tariffs and non-tariff barriers and we are going in and we are cutting this out and we are trying to bring all of these barriers down to create freer freer fairer trade uh so
we'll see what the secretary has to say but also as you know I want to point out that the stock market and and businesses have not taken Well, to this the stock market performance over the first 100 days, the worst since President Ford just after Nixon had left office. Certainly really great context there, Jennifer. Thank you so much.
We're going to bring in Terry Haynes, Pangia Policy founder, to discuss what we could expect from these remarks from the Treasury Secretary and also more broadly the current status of the trade war. Terry, it's great to have you on here. We've heard from Treasury Secretary Scott Besson in recent days that he expects deals to be announced in either a week or two weeks.
To what extent do you feel that that is likely that we will start to get deal making news in about these trade negotiations? Good morning, Mattie. I I would I would expect Besson to be good on his word. Uh I would not expect uh there to be uh you know final final deals on a lot of this stuff. Uh but but they will be in a position in a couple of weeks I think uh to share more details than they're able to share now in the middle of negotiations uh about progress.
And I think uh what you're going to see today from Bessant likely is all about progress. Consider Bessant talking to the markets today while Trump not so incidentally in Michigan is will end up talking uh to workers and and core parts of his own coalition politically that he'd like to to keep on and explain a little bit more about what he's doing and why he's doing it.
Terry, you know, we could we could come out in here and we're all kind of just waiting and sitting on the edge of our ergonomic chairs to see if he says the thing that we want them to discuss and acknowledge, which is tariffs, which is what many CEOs want more clarity on. But he could very much come out here and just take a victory lap and talk about the first 100 days and have much of the same commentary that he's publishing to his Twitter account or the Treasury Secretary Twitter account at this point.
What type of tone do you think needs to be set as we're it seems like getting a little bit more movement within the room? What type of tone do you think needs to be set at this juncture? And what is the critical point that Besson needs to address? Well, what what I think Besson needs to be doing, frankly, is two things.
One is uh is providing uh providing updates, but secondly, providing context. And it's not a uh uh it's not a coincidence that Bessant will be doing this in Washington at the same time Trump is elsewhere and uh and you know we'll talk later in the day but is elsewhere and uh and they want a little bit more what markets want fundamentally is and you know people generally want is a little bit more context about the path forward.
So I think what you're going to hear from Besson is not just about trade but also about the broader economic uh policy that they're trying to put forward including extension of the 2017 tax law including uh reshoring manufacturing providing incentives for that uh including what they call energy dominance including deregulation all those sorts of things that that has impacts on markets but uh but Bessonet I think will be speaking not just to markets but to political Washington as well in a way that uh that he hasn't done as much recently. Terry, as he was
tweeting about this or exing or posting whatever he was doing on the platform, putting up a social post saying that the president has come off the block with lightning speed for CEOs, they have a far different analysis. And for even Main Street, which they say that the administration is laser focused on, they have a different analysis as their businesses have been impacted.
The stock market has pulled back into correction and teetered with bare market territory at one point. So all that considered, what is the grade do you think those CEOs are giving this first 100 days? What grade do you give this first 100 days? Um I think I give the same I I think I give the same grade as a lot of those CEOs would give incompletes.
uh you know there everybody's will have lists of uh what they think the president's uh you know best accomplishments greatest successes are whatever his failures are uh but uh the economic policy right now uh from a CEO perspective from a markets perspective has to be an incomplete uh markets have known since since the day the election happened that there were going to be a variety of economic policy initiatives and and those were going to be on different tracks.
Uh that's playing out that way. Generally speaking, I don't think I'm not meaning to to downplay the uh the vicissitudes of any of this. But I but I do think that uh that where markets will be is look, you know, we we really expect the rest of this the stuff we really really like like uh extension of the tax laws to come on.
Some people will say that's already priced in. that may be, but nonetheless they expect it and they expect the other things deregulation and the like to uh to continue to stoke economic growth in the United States. And you know, you have to remember also and this is implicit in a lot of what Bessins has to say that is implicit is this is about economic policy, but this is economic policy in service of geopolitics.
And uh their view their view in the administration is that if they make the economic uh growth in the United States not only uh larger but more durable uh they put themselves in the best geopolitical position uh to deal with China and deal with other nations and so that shouldn't be lost either. All right Terry uh stay with us.
Let's listen in to Treasury Secretary Besson's remarks. Happy first 100 days. Before we begin, I want to acknowledge that the bipartisan Take It Down Act passed the House last night. This important legislation was championed and guided through Congress by our wonderful first lady Melania Trump, including through her direct advocacy on behalf of survivors during her passage, the the passage efforts.
The Take It Down Act criminalizes the publication of non-consensual im intimate imagery and requires social media and similar websites to remove such content within 48 hours of notice from a victim. The first lady thanks all those who voted in favor of this important legislation and the president looks forward to signing it when it arrives on his desk.
Today officially marks 100 days of promises made and promises kept by President Trump. This has truly been the most historic start to a presidency in American history. After building the greatest economy in the world in his first term as president, President Trump is in the process of doing that all over again.
The American people trust in President Trump. Since his first day in office, President Trump has focused on defeating the Biden inflation crisis, bringing down the cost of living, and making the United States the best place in the world to do business, invest, create jobs, and innovate. And President Trump's efforts are working. 345,000 jobs have already been added since the start of President Trump's term.
Last month's jobs report saw nearly 100,000 more jobs than economists predicted and it was the fourth highest month for private payroll growth in the past two years. 9,000 manufacturing jobs have been added to the economy already. This is a sharp contrast to the 6,000 manufacturing jobs that were lost each month in the final two years of the Biden administration.
The US employment rate remains at historic lows. And thanks to President Trump, Americans are seeing price relief for the first time in years. The last inflation report showed the first consumer price decline since the COVID pandemic, a decrease in energy prices, and real average hourly wage growth. President Trump is delivering on his promises to lower costs for American families and businesses.
Prices across the board for everyday goods have seen decline since this president was inaugurated. From airfare to used motor vehicles to pres prescription drugs, prices are dropping. In fact, last month's drop in the price of prescription drugs was the largest ever recorded. And after Joe Biden botched the response to the bird flu, President Trump and Secretary Rollins aggressive plan have brought down wholesale egg prices more than 50% from inauguration day.
President Trump ended Joe Biden's reckless war on American energy and fossil fuels and has restored American energy dominance and Secretary Wright Secretary Doug Bergam are working hard on that effort every single day. Oil and gas prices are now way down because of this bold approach. Gasoline prices down 7%. Energy down energy prices are also down as well.
The Department of Interior just announced a new offshore drilling policy that will boost oil production in the Gulf of America by 100,000 barrels per day. On the deregulation front, President Trump is committed to cutting senseless red tape, especially for America's small business owners who are the backbone of our economy.
We know cutting regulation leads to lower costs and higher growth. The mass deregulation effort by this administration will help usher in the golden age of America which is underway. Immediately upon taking office, President Trump blocked all of the unifi unfalized Biden era rules, saving America's more than 100 billion dollars or 2100 per family of four over the next decade.
And the president also launched a bold multi- agency effort to roll back existing federal regulations that drive up the cost of living on hardworking families. This effort is projected to yield significant cost savings in the coming months, including the EPA's roll back of tailpipe emission rules for light duty and medium duty vehicles and the Department of Transportation's latest corporate average fuel economy standards.
These two efforts alone yield $755 billion in total savings or more than 8,800 per family of four over the next decade. In total, the combined savings from all of these act actions equal just over $935 billion or nearly 11,000 in real savings per family of four per the coming decade. The press is not talking nearly enough about the positive impact of President Trump's deregulation campaign, and investments from the biggest companies and countries in the world are pouring in under this president.
So far, total investment commitments under the Trump administration have reached more than $5 trillion, including 500 billion from Apple in US-based manufacturing and training, 500 billion from Nvidia and AI infrastructure, 100 billion from TSMC and US-based chips manufacturing, and the $500 billion private investment by OpenAI, Oracle, and SoftBank in AI infrastructure as well.
All of these investment commitments are estimated to generate at least 451,000 new highpaying jobs for American workers and families. At this point, President Trump has secured more investments in the United States of America in 100 days than Joe Biden did in four years. President Trump is America's businessman chief, and that's why these trillions of dollars in investments are flooding to our country.
The business community is bullish on America because President Trump is back in charge. Tomorrow, the president will host CEOs and leaders from several companies that have made these investments to tout their historic commitments to our country and encourage others to follow suit. Under President Trump, there has never been a better time to invest in America.
And the president finally said, "Enough is enough." And refused to allow America and our workers to be ripped off any longer on trade. President Trump implemented powerful tariffs to end the era of economic surrender and to rebalance America's trading agreements. More than 100 countries have already come to the table looking to offer more favorable terms for America and our people.
There has never been a president who has created his own leverage like this president. And we are just getting started. Republicans in Congress are getting very close to passing President Trump's one big beautiful bill which will include the largest tax cuts in American history. strong border security measures, major military advancements, dramatic deregulation, and common sense spending reforms.
As President Trump has said before, the best is yet to come. For more on President Trump's economic successes so far and the plans ahead, I want to pass it off to our incredible Treasury Secretary, Scott Bessant, who is here today, and we will open it up to questions. In our new media seat, we have Brendan Peterson, the financial services reporter for Punch Bowl News.
Punch Bowl News covers power, people, and politics based in Washington DC. Laser focused on Capitol Hill, the politics of legislating, founded in 2021, and it is the first newsletter that Capitol Hill and the White House reads every morning in the middle of the day and throughout the evening. Thanks for being here with us and we'll start with you today.
Um, thanks so much for being here. I have a question for Secretary Besson. Um on tariffs, uh the president said over the weekend that we are hoping that maybe tariff revenues could replace income tax. Um but we also keep hearing about the deals that the administration is pursuing. So my question is what is the White House's ultimate object objective here? Do you want to have long-term tariff revenue or deals that might reduce those tariffs? Uh I think it's a combination of both.
So, we're going to take in long-term tariff revenue. We put a process in place. We have 18 important trading relationships. Uh we will be speaking to all of those partners, at least 17 of them. The over the next few weeks, many of them have already come to Washington. Uh what President Trump is referring to is the ability for tariff revenue to give income tax relief.
And I think there's a very good chance that we will see this in the upcoming tax bill. The president campaigned on no tax on tips, the no tax on social security, no tax on overtime, and the restoring interest deductibility for autos uh for Americanmade autos. So, uh tariff income could be used for tax relief on all those immediately.
So you think that there is a role for significant tariff revenue in US fiscal policy? Uh I I think that it is something that got put away a long time ago and I think that tariffs uh will bring back American manufacturing and generate substantial revenues. On manufacturing, we've seen some pretty grizzly surveys this month from the Philly Fed, u which saw the biggest drop since May of 2020, and the Dallas Fed, similar plunging outlook, poor shipping orders.
What are American manufacturers not understanding about your push for onoring in the US? Well, I I think you know I was in the investment business 35 years and I learned to ignore the survey data and look or the surveys look at the actual data and the actual data has been quite good. The job data is good. Americans keep spending and as Caroline said we have these incredible commitments to bring manufacturing back on shore with record uh investment by domestic corporations and foreigners who want to come into the US. Ouija.
Thank you so much, Caroline. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The Chinese continue to say that the US and China are not engaged in any consultation or negotiation on tariffs. You recently said, you've talked to your counterpart, but more about quote traditional things like financial stability. So, can you clarify is the administration talking to Beijing specifically about tariffs or not? Well, we're not going to talk about who's talking to whom, but I think that, you know, over time we will see that the chi Chinese tariffs are unsustainable for
China. I've saw I've seen some very large numbers over the past few days to show if these numbers stay on, Chinese could lose 10 million jobs very quickly and even if there is a drop in the tariffs that they could lose 5 million jobs. So remember that we are the deficit country. They sell almost five times more goods to us than we sell to them.
So the onus will be on them to the uh take off these tariffs. They're unsustainable for them and they are saying you guys are not talking about it. So is that true? Uh they have a different form of government. They're playing to a different audience. So, u I'm not going to get into, uh, the the nitty-gritty again of who's talking to whom.
Uh, but as I said, I believe for the Chinese, uh, these tariffs are unsustainable. And very quickly, two days ago, you said you didn't know if President Trump had spoken to Xi Jinping. Do you know now? Again, I would say Carolina and I have a lot of jobs around the White House running the switchboard in one of them. Bloomberg, go ahead.
Secretary Bis, thank you so much for being here this morning. Um you've talked about the importance of giving investors certainty um when it comes to the market. Yet the Trump administration is is continuing to negotiate several complex trade deals in a very sort of compressed time frame. When do you when do you expect you'll be able to give the market some certainty around those deals? You have a deadline.
Is it the 90-day pause? What are we looking at here? Good question. And I I think one thing that has been a little disconcerting for the markets is, you know, President Trump creates what I would call strategic uncertainty in the negotiations. So he is more concerned about getting the best possible trade deals the for the American people.
You know, we had four years of bad deals for decades the of unfair trading and we are going to the unwind those and make them fair. What we are doing is we've created a process. I think the aperture of uncertainty will be narrowing and as we start moving forward announcing deals then there will be certainty but you know it's certainty is not necessarily a good thing in negotiating. Mr.
Secretary last night there there were reports on the administration sort of walking back a little bit on the auto tariffs. Can you sort of just elaborate on that decision there and what we can expect going going forward and why sort of the shift in this auto chair? Well, President Trump has had meetings with both domestic and for excuse me, foreign auto producers and he's committed to bringing back auto production to the US.
So, we want to give the automakers a path to do that uh quickly, efficiently, and create as many jobs as possible. Jasmine, thank you so much, Caroline. Thank you, Secretary. Back on China, does the administration anticipate anticipate supply chain shocks or supply shocks coming um now that cargo shipments from China are significantly down? And if so, are there being plans or are there plans uh in the process of how to address that? I I wouldn't think that we would have supply chain shocks and I think retailers, they have managed
their inventory in in front of this. You know, I I speak to dozens of companies, sometimes daily, they but definitely weekly and uh they know that President Trump is committed to fair trade and have planned accordingly. And then second question, can you outline the timeline for when you think some of these deals particularly with your Asian countries like India, Japan, South Korea, uh you may have an announcement? I I'm glad you brought up our Asian trading partners and allies.
uh they have been uh the most forthcoming in terms of doing the deals. As I mentioned, Vice President Vance was in India last week. I think that he and Modi made some very good progress. So, I could see some announcements on India. I could see the contours of a deal with the pro Republic of Korea coming together and then we've had substantial talks with the Japanese.
Andrew, Secretary Vesson, just uh continuing on the path of the sort of like progress. You said last or yesterday, I think that it was uh could happen as early as this week or possibly next week. Can you give us a bit of a timetable? And then um I wanted to ask about South Korea specifically. They've said that they probably won't be able to make a comprehensive deal until early July because of their elections.
Japan also has elections. And to what extent are domestic factors complicating your efforts? Canada just had an election. You know, are you are you seeing that you might have to think about delaying the 90 days? Well, I I I would actually take the opposite tact that I think the from our talks that these governments actually want to have the framework of a trade deal done before they go into elections to show that they have successfully negotiated with the United States.
So we are finding that they are actually much more keen to come to the table, get this done and then go home and campaign on it. Sean, was there I'm sorry. Did you have a comment on whether it's going to something could happen this week or next week for for a deal? You know, you said yesterday I I again I think that we are very close on India and uh in India uh you know just a little inside baseball India in a funny way uh is easier to negotiate with than many other countries because they have very high tariffs and lots of tariffs.
So it's much easier to confront the direct tariffs when uh as we go through these unfair trade deals that have been put in over decades that the non-tariff trade barriers can be much more insidious and also harder to detect. So a country like India which has the you know posted and ready tariffs it's much easier to negotiate with them.
So you know I think the India negotiations are moving well. Sean, hi, Mr. Secretary. Um, so it was reported this morning that Amazon will soon display a little number next to the price of each product that shows how much the Trump tariffs are adding to the cost of each product. So, isn't that a perfect crystal clear demonstration that it's the American consumer and not China who is going to have to pay for these policies? I will uh take this since I just got off the phone with the president about Amazon's announcement. Uh this is a hostile and
political act by Amazon. Why did Amazon do this when the Biden administration hiked inflation to the highest level in 40 years? And I would also add that uh it's not a surprise because as Reuters recently wrote um Amazon has partnered with a Chinese propaganda arm. Um so this is another reason why Americans should buy American.
It's another reason why we are onshoring critical supply chains here at home to shore up our own critical supply chain uh and boost our own manufacturing. Is Jeff Bezos still a Trump supporter? Uh look, I will not speak to the president's uh relationships with uh Jeff Bezos, but I will tell you u that this is certainly a hostile and political action by Amazon.
And Secretary, if you have anything to add. Yeah, I would also add that the bring bringing down the the terrible Biden infliction has been a priority for the first 100 days of the Trump administration and President Trump has done a great job of leading that uh since January 20th. Uh interest rates, mortgage rates are down.
Uh gasoline and energy prices are down. We're expecting the further decreases. And as Caroline said, uh the big tax on consumers that goes unnoticed is deregulation or regulation. And we are deregulating and bringing that down. So, you know, from a household income point of view, we would expect real purchasing increases that we've seen them over the first 100 days and we would expect that to accelerate.
We we are doing peace deals, trade deals, tax deals, and deregulating. and the deregulation uh is a longer lead time, but I think by the third and fourth quarters that's really going to kick in. Thank you, Caroline. Uh a question for you and Secretary Bess. We talk a lot about volatility and uncertainty in the marketplace and the president has stated all along that he's more concerned about mainstream America, the American worker.
You just talked about deregulation and this entire fair trade and reciprocals. What is your message to the American people uh in terms of letting them get through this disturbance and the outcome being greater and a greater good for the American worker, the American people, the American families? I would say trust in President Trump.
Uh there is a reason he was reelected to this office. It's because of the historic success of his economic formula in the first term. As I laid out at the beginning of the briefing and the secretary has talked about and the president talks about every day, there's a proven formula that works. Massive deregulation, uh, energy independence and tax cuts which are coming and the secretary is working very hard on that with our counterparts on Capitol Hill.
U if you want to talk about that, that's a huge deal to put more money back into the pockets of hardworking Americans. As for the fair trade deals the president is trying to negotiate, he's not just writing the wrong of the mess that he inherited from the past four years of the Biden administration, this is a mess that has been created for the past four decades that has sold out the middle class that has moved jobs overseas.
You think about our heartland, middle America, what towns used to look like, what they look like today. President Trump wants to restore the golden age, and it's a process to do that. And that process is underway. But he's put together a fantastic trade team. Secretary Besson, Secretary Lutnick, Jameson Greer, all working incredibly hard on this effort 24/7, but tax cuts are coming and that's key. And uh Mr.
Secretary, why don't you talk a little bit about that? Yep. So, it's really it's really a three-legged stool in the economic policy. It it's trade the its tax and its deregulation. So, we are in the midst of addressing, as Caroline said, these long-term trade imbalances. uh the tax uh bill is going much better than I would have thought when I the uh took office on January 28th and that's through President Trump's leadership that Speaker Johnson leader Thun are united uh Speaker Johnson we had a very good meeting yesterday uh with somebody called the
big six NC director Kevin Hasset myself speaker Johnson leader thun uh committee chairman Jason Smith and Senator Crapo. And the tax bill is moving forward. It is going to give permanence to the 2017 tax cuts and job act which will back to the question on certainty. It will give American business certainty.
It will give American people certainty. And then President Trump is also adding the things for working Americans that is talked about earlier. No tax on tips, no tax on overtime, no tax on social security, making auto payments deductible. So that will substantially address the affordability crisis. And you know the other thing that I would note and back to data is that the Vanguard, one of the largest money management firms in America, said that over the past 100 days, 97% of Americans haven't done a trade. And in fact,
individual investors have held tight while institutional investors have panicked. So in individual investors trust in in individual the investors trust President Trump. Megan in the back. Thank you both. Can you detail for us exactly what we should expect as far as relief on the auto tariffs front? And then further, Mr.
Secretary, should we expect other industries to also get relief the way we've now seen for auto and tech as well? I'm not going to go into the details the of the uh auto tariff relief, but I can tell you that it will go substantially toward reshoring American auto manufacturing and uh again the goal here is to bring back the high quality industrial jobs to the US.
President Trump is interested in the jobs of the future, not the jobs of the past. You know, we we don't need to necessarily have a booming textile industry like where I grew up again, but we do want to have precision manufacturing and bring that back. And you know, another important very important function of this that does not get talked about enough is national security.
President Trump the his overriding the concern and belief is that economic security is national security. National security is economic security and we saw during co that our supply chains got cut off and we need to bring back a lot of those supply chains whether it's in semiconductors medicines the steel and we have to onshore those.
So, it's a combination of making trade free and fair and remedying this gaping national security hole that he was left with. And if I could on I would just add Megan, the president will sign the executive order on auto tariffs later today and we will release it as we always do. Go ahead. Secretary, any updates on the negotiation with the European Union and is it hard to negotiate with the European Union? Pardon.
Do you have any updates on the negotiation with the European Union? the I I'm more involved the in the Asian negotiations. My observation would be goes all the way back to Henry Kissinger's statement. When I call Europe, who do I call? So, we're negotiating with a lot of different interests. Uh some of the European countries have put on an unfair digital service tax on our big internet provider.
You know, France and Italy, other countries, Germany and Poland, don't have that. So we we want to see that unfair tax of one of America's great industries removed. So it's going to be a give and take. So they have some internal matters to decide before they can engage in an external negotiation. Edward. Yeah. Thanks Caroline. Uh Mr. Secretary, so contacts I have in the business community say that they're they're basically frozen for long-term investment because of the uncertainty around tariffs.
How long do you think President Trump has to make a deal before there's damage to the economy? Uh, look, I I think that what we're seeing is that business leaders, they they've gone into a pause and I think we're going to give them great certainty on this tax bill. And I think over the next couple of weeks, as as I said, we have 18 important trading relationships.
We'll put China to the side. 17 they are in motion. And then as I said yesterday, I think there's a very good chance we're going to get this tax bill done. And the tax bill is going to be very powerful for domestic US investment. So what we are going to do, one of the most powerful parts of President Trump's 2017 tax bill was full expensing of equipment.
We are going to make that, as President Trump said in his speech to Congress, that will be retroactive to January 20th. The other thing that we are looking to add is full expensing for factories. So bring your factory back. You can fully expense the equipment and the building. We will couple that with deregulation, cheap energy and regulatory certainty and that will continue to make the US the greatest destination for domestic and foreign investment.
And the president if I can follow just the president said that world leaders would like to meet with him in Rome in Vatic in Vatican City. I'm sorry about uh trade other than President Zullinsky. Who did the president meet with and about trade and when could we get some of those deals? The the president met with President Zullinsky as you know which we talked about uh and the president continues to be engaged with uh his fellow foreign leader his fellow leaders around the world in the European Union.
You've seen many of them visit the White House. I want to harp on in closing the point the secretary just made on the campaign trail. The president promised the American public that he was going to make America the best country in the world to do business again. The lowest taxes, lowest regulation, lowest energy costs of anywhere in the world.
And if you do business in the United States, you won't pay a tariff. You won't pay a price. That's not just good for companies around the world, but it's good for the American worker. That's what this team is focused so hard on every day. We have uh work to do. The golden age of America is underway. Uh but as I pointed out in the beginning, there's a lot of reason for the American consumer, the American CEO, the American small business owner to be confident and optimistic about this president and where we're headed. So you will hear
more from the president himself later this evening. He is traveling to Michigan, as you all know. He'll make a stop at the Air Force base with Governor Whitmer and then we will head to a rally tonight where you'll hear more from him directly. So we'll see you in Michigan. Thank you guys. Thank you.
You just heard some remarks from Treasury Secretary Scott Besson answering questions from the White House from reporters about the impact of tariff policies. Mentioning a bit about where negotiations stand, talks with India, Japan in the works. Also talking a bit about the continued positioning that tax relief and deregulation will be policy sweeteners to come for markets and give some relief later this year.
Let's bring in our very own Jennifer Shamberger to run through the headlines. Hey Jennifer. Good morning Maddie. That's right. not getting too much more clarity on the trade front, specifically when it comes to China, that we did get confirmation that the president is going to offer some relief on tariffs when it comes to automakers and that the president will be signing an executive order later today.
Uh, Secretary Bessant was asked once again whether the US is in talks with China on trade and once again the secretary punting saying that he will not get into the nitty-gritty of who is talking to who. He reiterated that the tariffs are unsustainable when it comes to China, saying that if these tariffs were to stay in place that China could lose as many as 10 million jobs.
He said that even if those uh tariffs were to come down a bit, China still stands to lose five million jobs and that the onus is still on China to come to the table when it comes to tariff talks. Now, he did say that the US is close to a deal with India. He's also optimistic when it comes to some of those Asian countries, Japan and South Korea, and is confident that we could get they could get a deal uh within the 90day mark even as some of those countries have elections in their countries. We also got a bit of clarity
about whether the administration is looking to raise revenue from tariffs or to use tariffs as a negotiating tactic. Besson saying it's going to be a combination of both. We did learn that perhaps the administration is looking to raise revenue from tariffs to help pay for some of the president's tax promises.
Things like no tax on tips, no tax on social security, uh auto insurance uh deductions uh for consumers as well. Um now he he did say that uh when it comes to uncertainty around tariffs that he hopes that uh certainty around taxes will help businesses move forward and create jobs. He talked about the notion of fully expensing factories. Uh he says he's not expecting supply chain shocks and he did address Maddie uh something that Amazon has put forth uh reportedly that they are going to put uh how much of a price increase is going to be due to tariffs. Uh Caroline Levit
calling that politically hostile. Yeah. And Jennifer just to give a check on that Amazon pre-market down about two and a half% after those headlines. Thank you so much Jennifer. We're going to bring in Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy. He is the founder. Terry, great to speak with you again.
Thank you for sticking around for us. Did you get any clarity from those remarks about how the White House, how Treasury Secretary Scott Besson are handling these tariff negotiations? What stood out to you? Uh what I got was affirmation more than anything else. Uh you know, Besson I thought was at his clearest talking about uh the the the Trump view that national security is economic security.
Economic security is national security. as we discussed right before the press conference started uh also talked a lot about uh specifically you know the deals that are getting done and he referenced first geopolitics a peace deal a t tax deals trade deals deregulation deals so uh you know that he's trying to put it in as broad a context as possible and trying to explain uh to markets and to the public exactly what's going on.
Uh the other thing I would point out is on tariffs uh it's it's I think natural to be a little bit confused on this but in the perfect world in the perfect bessent world anyway uh the tariff revenues wouldn't exist because you'd have such great trade deals uh and that would advantage the United States frankly that you wouldn't be getting tariff uh tariff revenues as a result.
This is an imperfect world. So, Best, it's acknowledging there will continue to be some tariff revenues. And they've hit upon the idea of providing uh income tax relief with those, which is uh interesting and a very populist idea. Terry, one of the things that was mentioned within this is President Trump creating what Bessent called strategic uncertainty in the negotiations.
How much longer can the economy and the markets as well separately endure strategic uncertainty as it relates to I think they're going to have to endure that for I think they're going to have to endure that for a little while longer frankly. uh my bogey on uh on when you see uh real movement on trade deals generally uh should be July the 4th because then what you get is I I think they'll they'll announce a lot of tariff deals before then but what you get on July 4th is the idea that either reciprocal tariffs continue or they
don't continue. So uh you know I think what they've been looking at is is July 4th as a kind of backs stop. you know, it has a nice appeal of course, but um in America, but July 4th is kind of a backs stop to uh okay, we you know, we'll have two more months of this and you know, the things will be pretty much set up and then we will by that time markets will be moving to the benefits from tax cuts and deregulation and uh you know, I think Bess had foreshadowed that too.
Is that true that there's going to be all of this relief to come if we get deregulation and tax cuts? Um well I think it's true that the uh that markets react positively to it. Sure. Uh they expect it uh you know it's priced in to some extent but at the same time uh you know you know what you expect is all good and they'll get a lot more clarity which will probably help as well.
And then Terry just as we're continuing to watch the market's reaction to this. I mean we did see some slippage during the announcements as major averages right now are lower across the board. Fractionally as that may be, it seems that there are some areas that as we were discussing and and have discussed in the past that are still looking for exemptions to come forward.
Where do you think those ex exemptions need to be expanded to? And in the process of those exempt exemptions, is leverage lost along the way? Uh leverage of what kind? Leverage in negotiation over the course of the trade deals. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Um the I would look at you know any indust any sector or industry that you know think of it the auto industry as a canary in the coal mine on this uh uh anywhere where the you know where you get the the r the transitional rub of u of inequities in the process that you'd be moving too fast and damaging an industry too much
uh you know you will I think you'll probably end up getting some relief. So you know the the Trump style I think generally is you know to to hit hard, hit fast, hit pure and then uh and then calibrate back the other way. So uh I think there will be a lot of calibration to come if the uh the the auto tariffs are are any example and I would be looking where I an analyst in any sector or industry I would be looking uh you know in my own specialty and trying to figure out exactly where that where that's likely to come. U so I think they
will do that. Yeah. uh but at the same time you know do I think they uh they lose uh the leverage a little bit but generally speaking uh you know that they think they've convinced uh they've convinced markets and they've convinced other countries of the seriousness of their intent to continue to uh uh to move forward in this way.
Certainly uh when it comes to China, the message that Secretary Bessant gave in an interview on Sunday u on one of the Sunday programs was that look, you know, in essence, we can afford to wait China out. We intend to wait out. They're going to have to figure this out and when they do, uh you know, we'll be doing some deals.
Terry, we got to leave things there on the day. Thanks so much for joining us and sticking around through the comments from the White House. We appreciate it. Thank you. Amazon shares are down 2% pre-market with the stock dropping after the White House press secretary said that the e-commerce company's reported decision to display the impact of tariffs on pricing was a hostile act.
Punch bowl reported that Amazon will soon display the added cost of US tariffs on individual products, citing a person familiar with the matter. The site will now display how much of a product's cost comes from tariffs next to the total listed price. Thanks for tuning in to Yahoo Finance. We've got much more coverage leading up to the opening [Music] bell.
White House press secretary Caroline Levit confirmed Tuesday morning that President Trump will soon sign an update on auto tariffs. Here with the details, we've got senior autos reporter Pros Superman. And Pros, what are we expecting here? Hey, Brad. So, you know, long time coming here for relief for the auto sector.
uh as first reported by the Wall Street Journal and confirmed by Howard Lutnik last night and Caroline Levit saying today that's something that's coming up. We don't have the details yet, but the journal claimed that there are some uh little a few features here. So, first and foremost, uh they want to prevent uh tariffs on formade cars stacking up on top of other tariffs as currently imposed.
So, it means that automakers paying Trump's auto tariffs won't actually be charged for other duties like uh steel and aluminum tariffs that are that are currently existing. uh and that and that move would be retroactive to April 2nd when the tariffs began, meaning that automakers would get reimbursed for some of that uh tariff expense.
Uh secondly, on auto parts, which would would be coming on May 3rd, uh they would also be reimbursed up to up to an amount equal to 3.75% of the value of a US-made car for one year, then 2.5% the year after that before being phased out. So again, a little bit of of relief there uh from the auto parts uh portion as well.
A lot going on here. So uh the uh we don't we're still kind of working on the details but the automakers will take it right. So Ford CEO Jim Farley put out a statement claiming that Ford welcomes and appreciates these decisions by President Trump which will help mitigate the impact of tariffs on automakers, suppliers and consumers.
So more to come here later today on some of these auto part tariff or auto exemptions potentially on tariffs. Pros, thanks so much. Thank you. Astroenica is on the move today after posting mixed results for the first quarter, missing revenue estimates but beating on EPS. The pharmaceutical giant reiterating its 2025 guidance and says it's committed to investing in the US as the industry faces tariff threats from President Trump.
Joining me now, we've got Pascal Soryat who is the Astroenica chief executive officer and Yahoo Finance senior health reporter Anelie Kemlani. Pascal, great to have you here with us this morning and thanks for taking the time. You're you're actually calling for no additional US levies on pharmaceuticals. What is the plan and and the analysis per Astroenica on that potential tariff threat? Brad and Madison, thank you for having me. It's pleasure to be with you.
Um we believe that uh the best way forward is to not charge uh tariffs on pharmaceuticals but uh create an environment that attracts investment through uh an attractive corporate tax rate. That's a general comment because as a company we have a very broad manufacturing uh footprint in the US. We have 11 manufacturing sites.
We manufacture small molecules, large molecules. We even have two large recent investments in cell therapy manufacturing. So we are relatively self-sufficient. The great majority of our products sold in the US are manufactured in the US. We actually export from the US and there's a couple of products we still make in Europe and we are moving that manufacturing to the US very rapidly.
So we are not really affected by this in a great to a great extent. But certainly we believe that uh a great environment of you know supporting investment in R&D and uh creating a attractive tax environment would help attract investment. Pascal Angela here, good to see you again. And and you know, I've heard you say, especially on the call this morning, about the sort of lack of long-term impact here, but you've also been pushing a lot for the European regulators to pay attention and for governments to pay attention to this tariff move and its impact um really in
the continent. And so I wonder how does that uh you know really mix with your focus on moving to the US but then also as someone who is European looking at the local sort of domestic picture and why the push there rather than rely on those US exports. Yeah, it's a really great question Jali. I mean I think you've got to start from what are we trying to achieve as an industry.
We are here to uh come up with innovative medicines and in the last few years 5 to 10 years the innovation in our industry has exploded. There's a whole series of technologies that are bringing new medicines and make uh the day when we can cure some cancers not that far away. But to get there, we have to have as many countries contributing to the global R&D effort.
And the problem we have is that a large a large part of our innovation effort in our industry is is actually funded by the US. So our view is that Europe has to allocate more funding uh to innovative pharmaceuticals. um a greater share of their healthcare expenditures should go to innovative pharmaceuticals so that Europe allocate a greater share of their GDP to to this innovation just like they have to allocate a greater share of their GDP to defense as well similar mechanisms we have to have a rebalancing of investments and Europe has to contribute
to this innovation effort uh and you know it can't be only the US funding it fair and on that innovation point. I know that you're also in the obesity space. I heard Arda say earlier that if you get your oral to phase 2, you're going to start thinking about how to build out capacity. Is that an uncertain picture right now when it comes to US versus XUS market or are you looking at just focusing on the US right now when it comes to that? And as a follow-up to that also um does Fizer's removal from that race sort of give you momentum?
Yeah, two great questions. I mean, first of all, the the manufacturing part. We've been investing in manufacturing in the US, in China, and in Europe. Uh, but of course, the US is our number one priority because it's a larger market, lots of lots of unmet needs to to address and also a very strong innovation sector.
Uh, so we will continue to invest in manufacturing, but also in R&D. We have two very large R&D center one near Washington and one in Kendall Square in Boston in in Cambridge and Boston. So we will continue to make make those investments. In particular, we will invest in the US for the manufacturing at scale of our uh anti- of our obesity portfolio of products.
So you know this will remain a great priority for us both from an R&D perspective but also uh from a manufacturing perspective. Pascal you mentioned that pipeline as well here and I believe you talked about this on the call too. How as you're evaluating some of the rolloff of patents over the next few years here.
How quickly do you expect some of those pipeline investments to be accretive to the business given the patent cliff that much of the industry faces over these next few years? It's a great question, Brad, but we don't have a lot of uh patent expireies over the next few years. We have a couple of patent expireies that will affect us, of course, but we have enormous uh momentum in the rest of our portfolio of products.
We have today more than 12 blockbusters. The blockbusters being defined as a product that sell for sells more than a billion dollars a year and they're all growing and we have new indications supporting their future growth. We also have new molecular entities. This year we will have a large number of new clinical readouts, new products, new indications.
So we believe by the end of this year people will be able to see investors will be able to see whether we are on track for 80 billion dollar sales by 2030. um because of the momentum they will see in our topline but also because of the delivery of our pipeline which so far has started very well. We've had five successful phase three redouts so far this year in a matter of three and a half months.
Astroenica CEO Pascal Sora, thank you so much for taking the time here with us today and a big thanks to our own Angelique Klani. Thank you. All your markets action straight ahead. Stay tuned. You're watching Morning Brief. There you're taking a live look at the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange and at the NASDAQ. Is it already that time of the year? The Triple Crown beginning kicking things off. Church Hill Downs here.
All right, for all the fans out there, you've got some funfetti in the air over in Times Square. Taking a look at the major averages as we begin today's trading activity coming off of some of the Q&A taking place at the White House this morning from Treasury Secretary Scott Bessant. Uh the Dow Jones Industrial Average, you're seeing that hold on to some gains, fractionally as they may be out of the gate, up by about onetenth of a percent.
The NASDAQ composite did move a little bit lower during some of those comments. Uh imagine that investors kind of took note of the uh commentary around Amazon. Of course, that's one of the components within the NASDAQ, the Dow, and the S&P 500. Actually, the S&P 500 beginning the day down by about 3/10en 4/10en of a percent.
And then just lastly, let's take a look at the 11 S&P 500 sectors here. As we kick things off, we're seeing more lagards than advancers right now bringing up the caboose. You've got energy that's down by about 8/10 of a percent and it looks like materials is actually leading the pack out of the gate here this morning. That's up by about 4/10en of a percent.
And the affforementioned Amazon, let's just take a quick gander at how that opens up the day. Begins the day lower by about 2%. some fighting words out of the White House this morning about how Amazon is going to be labeling some of the prices with the tariff impacts for consumers to see.
Let's get to Yahoo Finance's Jared Blickery for a look at what is moving. Hey Jared. Well, thank you Brad. Yeah, I was looking uh catching my eye too that Amazon trade definitely among the leaders to the downside this morning. But let's back up and just show the unit year-to- date in the S&P 500 once again because as I was outlining yesterday, the markets have come to a critical point.
This is the S&P, the Dow, and the NASDAQ to a little bit of a lesser extent, but we are right back up to that breakdown level. We had this huge acceleration last week and now we're trying to figure out what the next move is. And not a lot has happened technically in many of these markets since yesterday.
Few exceptions, but let me just uh go down and tell you what I'm seeing here. We got the NASDAQ. It looks down. it looks like is still leading down in early trading. Dow is slightly positive here. That's just barely up about 61 points. This is that year-to- date chart as well. And you can see how similar that is to the S&P 500.
But I want to move on to the bond market. And for there we have the 10-year Tynote yield. Uh that is basically flat right now. Although just earlier, and this is a year-to- date chart, it touched the lowest level that we've seen in about 3 weeks. And dollar that's just jumping a little bit. Not too much movement there.
pretty close to those lows that we've seen. And I want to take a look at the VIX as well because the VIX has been quite interesting. Uh that's not the one I want, but here we go. It is up just a little bit. You can see in this year-to- date chart a tiny inflection to the upside. Doesn't mean that much, but what's catching my eye is how it's just kind of hovering around the 25 level, which is historically slightly elevated.
So, that just shows you the uncertainty that's still in the market. Brad covered the sectors. Consumer discretionary was leading to the downside early, but now it is consumer staples and then healthc care and then energy and then utilities. So the defensive sectors are looking the weakest today, but not seeing a lot of outliers. Materials still leading.
That's XLB to the upside. Then when we take a look at the NASDAQ, let's see what Amazon is doing. It is down 1%. That is the biggest lagard in the MAG 7 trade. Although Microsoft and Tesla now positive. They were negative in the pre-market. So, we'll see where where those fall today by the close. And then in futures land, I was looking at crude oil, which slipped a little bit.
I was talking about the consolidation that we've seen recently. Here's a one-mon chart, and we just barely touched twoe lows. Not drawing that very well in crude oil. Silver's up, gold's down, Bitcoin consolidating around 95,000. Again, just a lot of wait and see right here as we are figuring out that next catalyst. Jared, thanks so much.
Appreciate it. [Music] [Applause] [Music] Now, time for some of today's trending tickers. We are watching GM, Coca-Cola, and UPS. First up, General Motors pulling its 2025 earnings guidance and pausing share buybacks amid tariff uncertainty. This as President Trump is expected to soften the impact of his auto tariffs today.
The Wall Street Journal reporting that the deal will prevent duties on foreign made cars from stacking on top of other tariffs that he has imposed. The automaker is delaying its earnings conference call until Thursday. Here, just one additional contextual note here that we heard from Secretary Bessant this morning, reminding and reiterating that President Trump has had meetings with both domestic and foreign and foreign auto producers and saying that he's committed to bringing back auto production to the US. So trying to give automakers a path
to do that quickly but that creating uncertainty in the near term for some of the guidance and outlook for auto manufacturers right now. And it's interesting when you take a look at the data which is all we have right now for GM because of the delay of that call. Uh the financial results did largely beat expectations but some potentially worrisome signs ahead here specifically regarding GM projecting an adjusted pre-tax profit in a range of 13 to 15.
7 billion for 2025. The midpoint of that would be about on par with last year's. And obviously, you want to see growth. You don't want to see continuation of last year's results. Also, these results do capture that first quarter pull forward behavior from consumers buying some autos in anticipation of the impact of those tariffs.
So, how much of this is a potential lift ahead of a potential downturn from tariff policy? Hopefully, we'll get some clarity about that when that call is scheduled moving forward here. Next up, let's talk about Coca-Cola topping first quarter estimates boosted by price hikes and strong demand. The beverage maker maintaining its 2025 guidance, saying it expects tariff impacts to be manageable.
You got manageable. You've got the shares down about 3/4 of a percent here. What I find fascinating about Coca-Cola here is that we did initially see a pop in the stock price after these earnings results here and now you see a move to the downside here. Interesting to see too that the company called Trump's tariffs manageable.
Obviously, that is the line when it comes to companies being able to talk about their ability to withstand the impact of these tariffs. In in terms of the math, you had net sales down a little bit year-over-year, organic sales growth up just a touch, and earnings per share also up just a touch. Yeah, the company did acknowledge some pressure in key developed markets.
the chairman and CEO James Quincy saying that the power of their global global footprint though allowed them to successfully navigate a complex external environment. And additionally here uh they also did note within that kind of volume sales mix that we're continuing to track uh unit case volume actually grew 2% here. Uh but overall this is going to be a continuing kind of story to watch especially as it relates to where consumers are trading down or trading in and perhaps buying in bulk.
uh in some cases here for Coca-Cola and what that means as well for some of their larger distribution partners also. And finally here, let's talk a little UPS. UPS expecting to cut 20,000 jobs this year in response to lower volumes. The shipping giant not providing an update to its fullear outlook amid economic uncertainty.
This is despite topping first quarter results. Shares of UPS, you're seeing them higher here at least early in trading by about half a percent. We've been continuing to track this one of course closely over the course of this year as well. Given where some of the consumer mindset has continued to navigate over the course of this year to date, they are still down by about 21%.
And critically not providing any updates to its previously issued consolidated fullear outlook given the what else uncertainty. Uh, also interesting to see that earnings were up but sales were down. And UPS talking specifically about leveraging their integrated network and trade expertise moving forward amid that backdrop of uncertainty.
And you can scan the QR code below to track the best and worst performing stocks with Yahoo Finance's trending tickers page. It's time now for today's strategy session. Earnings season in full swing with four Magnificent 7 members reporting this week. All but one of the MAG 7 stocks have fallen below their 200 day moving average.
So, what do the technical indicators spell out for what comes next? Joining us now, Larry Tentterelli. He's the chief technical strategist for the blue chip daily trend report. Larry, I think if we're talking about the MAG 7 this morning, I have to start with you on Amazon because this is a stock that is now dragging down the entire retail sector with it this morning.
To what extent do you think that Amazon is able to pull out something in this earnings print this week that's going to allow them to be a positive bell weather for the Mag 7 despite the current market action that is very much related to Amazon as a retailer not as a tech company. Sure, that's a great question. I don't know that I've got a super clear answer for you.
I think that the key thing is really going to be based on forward guidance. We really don't know what that's going to be. Amazon because they're tied to the consumer. We're we're in unchartered territory because there is no blueprint for this tariff cycle right now. But I think it's going to be a very important tell for the sector as you kind of look across some of the technical tells that are playing out within the tech sector at this juncture.
Of course, two of those larger mag 7 names in Nvidia and Apple were two of the first major companies mega cap tech companies to really initiate some of the pullback this year. What are the technicals telling us now? So, the Mag 7 still is not my favorite place to be. I see much stronger charts. Palunteer, Crowdstrike, Netflix.
The Mag 7, I think it got to be overowned. I think that a lot of foreign investors had parked money in the MAG7. And as the US dollar has sold off, I think they've also sold the MAG7 stocks. So, the Triple Q is still underneath the 200 day moving average, the S&P is. So, I'm still I don't like the MAG7 that much yet, but I am open-minded that if the earnings come through and the stocks turn up, then that could be more positive.
And do you think that there is potential for the opposite for there to be much more downside for the MAG 7 given that you're already a little bit skeptical? I don't know if I'd say much more downside. So what we saw in the S&P 500 two weeks ago, highest weekly volume in 14 years, and it was a major upside reversal week.
So historically, that's how many bare markets have bottomed. So I don't know that I'd say that there's major downside per se in the MAG7, but I think we need to stay open-minded that if they if they're soft on guidance, you could see some downside. Is this still the year for selling May and go away? Is that at play at all from what you're kind of seeing, especially given where investors have either been guided in the early kind of market correction to to buy on the dip versus what they're being guided towards now, which is sell the rally,
right? I think we're in a different market this year. So, I can't say that sell in May. I think historically, if we go back over the past 10 years, sell in May hasn't actually worked too well. I think this is a very high volatility news-driven cycle. I do think last week we had a very bullish week and volatility is starting to come out of the market, but I think it's really very chart specific.
I do think that the S&P and NASDAQ 100 are in a recovery phase. So, I'm looking to buy the pullbacks as opposed to sell the rallies. Interesting. Larry, great to see you. Thanks for joining us in studio this morning. Thank you so much. Absolutely. Coming up everyone, we're taking a closer look at results from Fizer as the drug maker says it's unable to predict how tariffs will affect its business.
Stay tuned. Drug maker Fiser posting mixed results for their first quarter as it announced plans for 1.2 billion in cost cutting efforts. Sales for the quarter came in just shy of expectations. Fiser reaffirming its outlook for the full year but noting it has not factored in any potential impact from terrorists.
Here to discuss what these results mean for the drug maker, we've got Vomal Devon. He is Guggenheim security senior research analyst and managing director. Vom, great to have you on here. So Fizer, cutting costs while continuing to struggle for growth opportunities. Where does that leave you on this name? Yeah, it's been a tough one.
We have a buy rating on it. We do like the name longer term. We think that the expectations are very low and so we do think there's upside over time but it's been a struggle for sure. Last year they delivered very good commercial performance beat numbers pretty handily. Stock didn't really react well and now it's face a lot of pressure more recently with all the concerns around tariffs and the longerterm outlook.
So we do still like it. We think there's value in the pipeline. Uh we think over time they can deliver upside to where current expectations are. But it's not going to happen today. I think today is pretty much like you mentioned a mixed quarter. It's just more costcut driven sort of upside uh and nothing to get people too excited about anything really changing in the near term.
It's still going to take some time. How does that potential tariff headwind kind of widen your forecast uh range as you're looking through what potentially could be incurred by Fizer and and the rest of the industry and how that would radically or materially at least change some of the expectations for their financial performance.
Yeah. Yeah. So it's a it's obviously challenging for everyone right now to sort of predict the future. I think there's two sides where we see the potential risk. One would be on the actual COGS line the expenses paying for the tariffs and then the other thing for a lot of these multinational pharmaceutical companies would be on the tax side uh if there's changes to how they do their how they can utilize transfer pricing and lower some of their taxes based on their manufacturing and intellectual property being outside the
United States. So Fiser you see they have a 15% tax rate. I think it's not unrealistic to think that's going to go up over the next couple years maybe to 17 18%. We see what we'll see what happens in terms of actual policy but that's where we see the two biggest risks. So multinational farmer companies like this see their cogs go up and then if your tax rates below the 21% rate right now there's a pretty good chance that's going to go up in the next couple years as well.
And regarding tariff policy and just uncertainty obviously Fiser maintaining the 2025 outlook here. To what extent do you have faith in its ability to bear fruit on that? Yeah, I think ultimately for all of these companies, it is about innovation and it's about the pipeline and driving that long-term growth even before all the tariff uh you know concerns started.
The the main concern is that a lot of their core products are losing patent protection and other ones are facing other challenges over the next few years and the pipeline needs to deliver. That again is what's core to our thesis. We do think they have some exciting things in the pipeline in the oncology space, some in the obesity metabolism space.
Uh so those products are going to need to deliver. Last year we saw some of that. Uh we're going to see some more in the coming months here with some data releases. Those come through again. We know the sales for the next couple years are not going to show significant growth. Uh that's the fact at this point, but this is a long-term business.
uh you start delivering on the pipeline, people start getting more optimistic on what it's going to look like in 2028, 2029, 30. And that's where I think the stock can start working maybe later this year into next year. Voml, good to have you here with us today. Thanks so much for taking the time. Thank you.
We've got all your market action ahead. Stay tuned. You're watching the morning brief. [Music] [Applause] We're taking a closer look at some trending tickers this morning and we're doing it in 30 seconds each. We're first identifying a team up here between Hims and Hers and Novo Nordisk. Plus, we've got earnings from Hilton and PayPal.
First up, the healthc care team up. Pharmaceutical giants Nova Nordisk collaborating with startup Hims and Hers to provide affordable obesity care to millions of Americans. Starting now, consumers can bundle a Hims and Hers subscription with any dose of Novo's weight loss drug, Wiggoi, for a single price starting at $599 a month.
Yeah, a huge deal for Hims and Hers and for Novo. You can see those shares up nearly 24% and 3% for Novo as well. In earnings news, Hilton topping expectations here. If we can move ahead here, we will see that Hilton's profit growth in the first quarter boosted its adjusted profit outlook, citing strong consumer demand.
Hilton also projecting revenue per available room to be flat to up to 2% compared to 24 2024. That's below the previous estimate of a 2 to 3% rise. Yeah, overall they remain optimistic about some of those growth opportunities. The CEO Chris Netta saying. And finally here, PayPal delivering a mixed report earnings topping estimates while revenue missed.
The company also reaffirmed its fullear guidance citing micro macroeconomic uncertainty. shares of PYPPL. You're seeing them fractionally lower here early in trade, down by about two ten of a percent. And you can scan the QR code to track the best and worst performing stocks of the session at Yahoo Finance's trending tickers page.
Moving on here, Spotify is another big earnings mover today. You can see the shares boopping around after issuing a disappointing second quarter guidance. They were down as much as 8% pre-market. Looks like that action is continuing here. Our senior reporter Alexander Canal has the results. Hey Ally. Hey Maddie. Yeah, it's all about that guidance which we've heard from a lot of companies this earning season and this particular decline in the share price mostly focused on guidance for monthly active users otherwise known as MAUs. The company expects 689 million
MAUs in the second quarter. That's below the 694 million analysts had expected. And these misses clouded pretty strong user growth that we saw in the first quarter. We had premium subs rise 12% year-over-year. is was actually the strongest Q1 subscriber growth since 2020 and the second highest net addition for any quarter in the company's history.
So strong start to the year, but an acknowledgement here from management that it will be bumpy, especially compared to 2024 when we had a lot of acceleration when it came to subscribers. Also an aggressive pace of margin expansion that's all supposed to slow in 2025. Daniel Ek talked about the uncertain macro picture on the earnings call, but he did say that Spotify is well positioned that the underlying data remains healthy.
To that point, Wall Street analysts say that Spotify is really a defensive name, especially given the macro picture, similar to a company like Netflix. It has a lot going for it when it comes to its various tiers. It's catering to the super fan. It has audiobooks, has podcasts, and it's relatively cheap, so it holds well in a recessionary environment.
On the pricing side of things, Daniel E did say that pricing is a part of its strategy, but the company is very careful to enact price increases unless it's delivering value. So, I don't know if we should expect any further price increases in the near term, but it's always a lever that the company has as it gets going.
But despite the decline in shares today, we are still up about 100% over the past year. And Wall Street very bullish on this company. You know, it's in growth mode. It's committed to this turnaround plan. It's finally making money. Um, so really there's this there's this uh commentary on Wall Street that we don't need to worry about this report right now that the long-term uh future of this company is still well intact.
So it sounds like Wall Street is anticipating that despite the Q1 gross margin slowing and the year-over-year decline that we saw that there's that opportunity for at least for them to pull price from consumers or extract more value there. They have those levers that they can pull. This is an uncertain backdrop. They're committing to the superfan experience, committing to the creator economy.
They just said that they paid out $100 million to podcast publishers. That includes those marquee names like Alex Cooper, Joe Rogan. So, they have these other opportunities that they can lean on. And when you talk about the competitive landscape, Spotify is one of the top uh performers out there compared to, you know, your Amazon Music or your Apple Music.
Brad, I know you're an Apple Music. I'm a Spotify girl. Absolutely outing me. But but but people pay for these things, right? It's that it's, you know, recession proof in a lot of ways and again relatively cheap. I didn't know that you could have a a playlist created based on your ideal BPM. AIDJ on Spotify is great. Thank you guys so much. Ally, thank you.
Checking back on shares of Amazon falling after White House press secretary Caroline Hevit Levit told reporters the company's decision to display tariff impacts on pricing is a hostile and political act. The comments follow reporting from Punch Bowl that the e-commerce giant will soon display the added cost of US tariffs on individual products next to the total listed price.
The price increases come as the president imposes high levies on imported goods from China. The move creating political tensions now between the White House and Amazon. Amazon founder Jeff Bezos was one of the tech executives notably attending President Trump's inauguration has since met with him at Mara Lago, but the company today reportedly adding tariff pricing to its website. I am out to Amazon for comment.
The shares down a little over 1%. That does it for Morning Brief. Join me in the next hour for Catalysts.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wzL_Mky1zvE
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
It's time now for today's strategy session. Earnings season in full swing with four Magnificent Seven members reporting this week. All but one of the Mag Seven stocks have fallen below their 200 day moving average. So, what do the technical indicators spell out for what comes next? Joining us now, Larry Tenturelli.
He's the chief technical strategist for the blue chip daily trend report. Larry, I think if we're talking about the MAG 7 this morning, I have to start with you on Amazon because this is a stock that is now dragging down the entire retail sector with it this morning. To what extent do you think that Amazon is able to pull out something in this earnings print this week that's going to allow them to be a positive bell weather for the Mag 7 despite the current market action that is very much related to Amazon as a retail retailer not as a tech company?
Sure, that's a great question. I don't know that I've got a super clear answer for you. I think that the key thing is really going to be based on forward guidance. We really don't know what that's going to be Amazon because they're tied to the consumer. We're we're in unchartered territory because there is no blueprint for this tariff cycle right now, but I think it's going to be a very important tell for the sector as you kind of look across some of the technical tells that are playing out within the tech sector at this
juncture. Of course, two of those larger mag 7 names in Nvidia and Apple were two of the first major companies, mega cap tech companies to really initiate some of the pullback this year. What are the technicals telling us now? So the Mag 7 still is not my favorite place to be. I see much stronger charts.
Palunteer, Crowd Strike, Netflix. The Mag 7, I think it got to be overowned. I think that a lot of foreign investors had parked money in the MAG7. And as the US dollar has sold off, I think they've also sold the MAG7 stocks. So the Triple Q is still underneath the 200 day moving average. The S&P is. So, I'm still I don't like the MAG7 that much yet, but I am open-minded that if the earnings come through and the stocks turn up, then that could be more positive.
And do you think that there is potential for the opposite for there to be much more downside for the MAG7 given that you're already a little bit skeptical? I don't know if I'd say much more downside. So, what we saw in the S&P 500 two weeks ago, highest weekly volume in 14 years, and it was a major upside reversal week.
So, historically, that's how many bare markets have bottomed. So, I don't know that I'd say that there's major downside per se in the MAG7, but I think we need to stay open-minded that if they if they're soft on guidance, you could see some downside. Is this still the year for selling May and go away? Is that at play at all from what you're kind of seeing, especially given where investors have either been guided in the early kind of market correction to to buy on the dip versus what they're being guided towards now, which is sell the rally,
right? I think we're in a different market this year. So, I can't say that sell in May. I think historically, if we go back over the past 10 years, sell in May hasn't actually worked too well. I think this is a very high volatility news-driven cycle. I do think last week we had a very bullish week and volatility is starting to come out of the market, but I think it's really very chart specific.
I do think that the S&P and NASDAQ 100 are in a recovery phase. So, I'm looking to buy the pullbacks as opposed to sell the rallies. Interesting, Larry. Great to see you. Thanks for joining us in studio this morning. Thank you so much. Absolutely.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AP6A3DZu5aI
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
[Music] Hello and welcome to Asking for a Trend. I'm Josh Lipton and for the next half hour, we're breaking down the trends of today that'll move stocks tomorrow. There is a lot to keep track of, so we're focusing on what you need to know to get ahead of the curve. Here's some of the trends we're going to be diving into.
Stocks end higher on Wall Street today amid corporate earnings, soft economic data, and news out of Washington on the tariff front. And the White House says it's scaling back its 25% tariffs on imported cars and auto parts that are set to go into effect next month. We're taking a deep dive into what it all means for investors and consumers.
And a digitally savvy makeup brand is also navigating the cost of doing business during a trade war. We're going to learn more about what it takes to get cosmetics to market in this climate. Well, President Trump signed an executive order that will provide some tariff relief for the auto industry. For more, we're bringing in now Aaron Keading, executive analyst at Cox Automotive.
Aaron, it is great to see you. So, Trump stepping in here, taking steps to soften the impact there of these auto tariffs. It it was a bit complicated, Aaron. I'm curious. First, just to start high level, your thoughts, your reaction. Yeah, I mean obviously he hasn't declared it officially through any kind of formal notice, but we've heard that it looks like there's going to be some content reduction or price offset for manufacturers that are actually assembling in the US um where they'll be able to offset 3.75% of the price for parts that are
foreign parts. So remember, there's a couple of different ways the tariffs are being applied. Some are if you have a completely uh assembled vehicle entering the country that's the 25% and then there are the vehicles that are assembled here but are going to be paying for automotive parts that are coming into the country to build those cars.
That's where he's looking to potentially offset some of the cost. But at 3.755% and then down to 2 and a half% next year and then gone in the third year. Uh we're not necessarily anticipating this to be a huge relief although any cuts to tariffs will count. So I I I was interested and you're kind of leading me there, Erin.
Just if I was a CEO and I was running an auto company, how I would be thinking about this, whether I would be breathing some giant sigh of relief or would I be thinking, okay, I'm just going to listen, I I I was thrown something. I'll take it. Yeah. I mean, I think right now they're going to be happy with anything that's thrown their way because it's a complicated um calculus that they're all having to do.
and anything certain, more importantly, anything certain, something that's going to be dictated in stays so that they can start to do some real financial planning around what might happen in the future. Um, I can imagine that they're happy about, but this particular break is again just on um the vehicles, the parts that are going into vehicles.
Just keep in mind that there has been no mention about vehicles parts that are coming into the country that would perhaps be for those that need to repair their vehicles. All of those parts still being imported would be theoretically hit with the full 25%. And that of course will matter to anyone who owns used vehicles or has a car that they might need to get repaired sometime soon.
And then furthermore, there was some talk around not stacking. Well, theoretically, a car that's coming in fully assembled may not have been subjected to the stacking tariff of teal steel and aluminum either ways, you know. So, there's not really a whole lot of give there either. So, it's a little bit confusing. I'm anxious to see how the president actually um fills out some of the holes that we have right now.
Uh we expect him to do that around six o'clock tonight, but it's not overwhelming me with a lot of great news from a bottom line perspective. If I'm if I'm running one of these car companies, Aaron, I'm running GM, I'm running Ford. Bottom line, am I bringing back more manufacturing here to the states? Because that of course is Trump's goal here, right? That's what he wants. Yeah.
I mean, you know, we've said all along, every automaker has been heavily invested in the United States, and we expect that there are going to be more investments in the country. It's one of the largest automotive markets in the world. Um, and we do anticipate that assembly might be more possible, quicker.
um building up our parts supply chain here in the United States. That's a little tougher um to imagine that we would be able to reshore as many parts in manufacturing that could really offset this whole tariff um imposition here. But should I expect to see more assembly coming into the United States? Sure. Um will it be again enough to really offset what the goals of the president really hopes to, you know, attempt by this? I'm I'm not sure that I think it's going to be um a wash, if you will. Erin, I'm curious.
If you look at the American automakers, Ford, GM, Tesla, are there certain names that are that are more relatively well positioned against this tariff threat than others that are that are selling a lot of what they're making here, right? Right. Well, so it's interesting you say Tesla because we do know that they are one of the most quote unquote Americanmade vehicles in the country, but their volume is relatively small considering that they only sell electric vehicles.
And we know that they only currently make up about 8% of sales total electric vehicles total in the United States. Ford certainly is a little bit more well positioned, we think. Um, you know, Stellantis just behind that, GM just behind that. You know, with GM specifically, we know there's some challenges because some of their more affordable, popular volume models are actually imported currently, but we do anticipate that they will, you know, make every effort to try to avoid having to put a lot of cost onto those
particular models. Um, especially given their popularity and where they sit within their portfolio. Um, and then, you know, we can't forget that Honda, Toyota, um, we have several foreign automakers, if you will, that have substantial, uh, assembly plants here in the United States. and are almost on par with some of our domestic automakers.
Do you think those foreign car makers, Erin, are are they going to bring even more? Would you expect them to bring even more manufacturing here uh remain on Trump's good side? I mean, and after all, I mean, they they can't obviously ignore the American market, right? Too big, too lucrative. Sure. They can't. No, they can't ignore it for sure.
Um and I do think that you might see some swapping out of production. We've already heard that, for instance, um Hyundai is saying, "Okay, well, we're not going to necessarily put the Tucson that we need in Canada. We're not going to pull them from our US supply. We're actually going to bring those over from Japan.
I don't think that that means that now there is quote unquote more production happening. It just means that we might be transitioning those tons that were originally manufactured here to go into Canada might now stay here in the US. Um but again, I think every automaker has a vested interest in making sure that they can cater to this market.
The profitability in this market is uh is is arguable and they need to they can't ignore it. Um, and we know that Nissan, for instance, is looking at pulling back, uh, pulling back up into operation, more shifts so that they can get more vehicles going here in the United States. So, I think we'll absolutely see an increase in activity. Um, again, it's anyone's guess, and it's probably a 5year time horizon before we really see what has moved the needle from a production coming to the United States uh, perspective.
Aaron, so good to have you on the show today. Thanks so much for your time. Sure. Happy to talk to you. Stick around. Much more asking for a trend that's still to come. The Dow extends its longest win streak of 2025 as stocks rise amid the latest tariff relief in Yahoo Finance. Jared Blickery joins us now with the trading day takeaways.
Jared, thank you Josh. We got to start with the 100 days, the final tally. So, let's just do that right now. I'm going to start with the sector action. really interesting to see what happened here because remember the election to the inauguration was wildly bullish and then we saw this huge reversal.
So here is the final scores on the door. Staples and then utilities and real estate the only sectors in the green. Staples up 5%. Uh but you notice these top four here and I'm going to throw healthcare which is basically break even. Those are defensive sectors. So this was a very defensive move here even when uh some of these issues traded in the green or closed in the green here. XLY is consumer discretionary.
That's Amazon and that's also Tesla. Tesla got cut in half after that huge rally after the election. Energy also down right along with tech which is really interesting because energy and tech typically over the last three years have traded opposite each other. But there they are towards the bottom. But I'm going to show you something else here.
I want to show you since the bottom of this equity rally. And so on 48, that's April 8th, we had the price loan, the S&P 500 and some of the other majors. That's what I'm measuring this against. And now you see a lot of green. So tech is up 16% leading the way once again still in this bull market as it did for the first two years.
Consumer discretionary that's Amazon and Tesla that's number two. Then XLB materials that was actually negative after the election that has swung positive since April 8th. Then industrials to the downside. Even uh healthc care staples energy utilities those four defensive sectors in the green by decent amounts here.
So, we've we've made some decent progress for the bulls, but remains to be seen if we can continue up to those record highs here. We got some ways to go. And with just one more day left in April, how are we looking? Yeah, let's go to monthto date. This is going to be pretty similar. Well, in theory, it should be pretty similar because we're only consider we're only considering a few days more, but because the bulk of the uh downswing that we had happened in the beginning of the month, it actually looks vastly different.
So tech is up there that uh held some sway this month up 1% then discretionary than utilities but energy took the biggest whack to the downside and look at that energy on the opposite side of uh tech here when you look at the monthly totals let's go to the next one because we are talking bubbles and there's no bubble in AI yet is there um anyway I had a chance to speak with Dan Newman he's the CEO of Futurum Group and this was a a stocks and translation discussion that we had with him and he's saying that well let me just leave it to him I'll let him
speak we're building out all this infrastructure but every quarter you sit around you listen to Microsoft they say oh we are now generating $10 billion annual run rate from all of this investment last I checked they spent they're going to spend 80 this year so I think some of this is when does it start to translate to those CEOs implementing solutions and then they go back we're getting value from this we're running more efficiently we have agents that are doing tasks for us and actually helping us make money and run our businesses
better. I think that gap in there, that white space is where a bubble could potentially exist, but there's so much investment going into seeing that that doesn't become a bubble. This is not the internet bubble. So, look at all that forward thinking there. Uh the bubble, there may be a bubble in the future sometimes when people when businesses actually figure out how to monetize monetize AI in a big way, but what we've already seen probably not a bubble, especially looking with the rearview mirror. Um, and I think that's the end
of that. So, no bubble. Yes. But plenty of volatility. We know. What are the updates there? Yes. A lot of volatility. And I was checking I was checking through the Yahoo Finance tickers. We actually have at least 15 volatility VIX related tickers. And I'm just going to go through a few of them.
We're going to start out with the VIX, the original, the VIX volatility index. This is the latest uh over one year. And this big spike here, no surprise, this is what happened over the month of April. Now, this big spike over here, that was Yen Mceddon. And that was that oneoff event that really didn't disrupt the markets that much unless you were in the currency trade.
But I want to show you what this chart looks like compared to realized volatility because the VIX is implied. This is what the uh traders in the options market think about the future. This is what actually happened in the S&P, the S&P 500. Notice it's still trending pretty high here. And when did that trend start? It started the same.
It started about a month after the uh election. So sometime in December, we got that bottom in realized volatility. We've just been going higher ever since. We have a lot of other volatility related tickers. We even have the VIX of the VIX. I'm not going to get into that because it tends to make people's head spin. Uh but uh I'll go back here.
The the original VIX is 30-day volatility, but we also have one-day volatility. Why would you want to see that? Because that's more retail oriented, whereas the 30-day volatility, the original VIX is more institutionally oriented. But if you look at what the retail traders are pricing in here, that has actually come down more than the institutional.
So retail traders um although they got jostled with everybody else and they got an even higher reading than the original VIX, they have come down even more. Uh so there's a lot in here, but all these tickers available on the Yahoo Finance website. Finally, what about oil, gold, and gold volatility? What what are they saying? All right, so let's take a look at oil here because we do have that.
Um actually, let's start with gold. Gold is interesting. It's a little bit different than the other uh than the stock indices than the stock fixes because as gold goes higher, its volatility tends to go higher. What do we see right now? It's coming off of its peak rather sharply. So maybe the uh rally in gold losing a little bit of a momentum here. Still quite elevated.
So I'm not saying the rally is over by any stretch. And then crude oil. Crude oil looks a little bit different. It is ticking up again. So we got to track that oil volatility heading into the close. And we will close everybody. Appreciate it. Stick around. Much more Ash for a trend still to come.
Shares of Oddity Tech soaring in the after hours at the consumer tech firm boosts its net revenue guidance for the full year and announces a beat on the top and bottom lines. For more on the numbers, let's welcome in now Lindseay Ducker, Oddity Global CFO as well as Yahoo Finances. Julie Hyman, of course, is good to see you here on set. So, you report your stock is ripping in the after hours.
You're up more than 21% right now. Walk us through the report. What are you seeing in the business? Listen, I think in a moment like today where there's a lot of uncertainty in the environment, you look at oddity and our results have been very consistent. This is um two years since we went public. We've reported eight times. Every single time we've reported results, we've beat on the quarter and we've raised our fullear outlook.
And the reason we're able to do that with so much consistency is because what's affecting our business is so much more powerful than disruption and volatility and consumer spending. And it's pretty straightforward. Number one, we compete in a very large and attractive global TAM. Beaut's $600 billion in size.
It's um dominated by offline incumbents and ripe for disruption in our view. Number two, there's two very powerful shifts happening in the category. The first is the consumers shifting online. Uh and the second is that the consumers shifting towards um high efficacy scienceback products and those are two areas where we're leading.
And the third is that we've proven to be a brand scaling machine. So our first brand Ilmakage crossed 500 million of revenue last year. It's one of the largest beauty brands in the country. Our second brand, Spoiled Child, we think we'll get to 200 million of revenue this year. It's we only launched it three years ago.
We have a third brand that we affectionately call brand three right now which will launch later this year. It's a telealth platform for people with medical grade skin and body issues to start with but we're expanding into other medical domains after. We have a fourth brand that's on tap for 2026. So um our business is performing very very well.
We are incredibly bullish about the future right now. Um it's a time where we see a lot of companies playing defense. We're in the very fortunate uh position where we can continue to play offense. Our goal is to become one of the biggest beauty companies in the world and these are our objectives. Um so to take a step back and look at the numbers again and you guys saw impressive growth of 27% in revenue.
You also raised your outlook. Yeah. Which is not something we're hearing from a lot of companies right now. And in the statement um talk about tariffs being manageable. Y where are you guys sourcing from and what are you seeing in terms of that that tariff change? Yeah. So we we um have told the market that our objective um is to deliver sustained 20% revenue growth every year at a 20% um adjusted EBIT margin and of course this quarter we delivered significantly ahead of that and it's really a function of demand is very strong online for our
products um not just for people first making their first purchase with us uh but also our repeat is excellent. So, um, part of how we run our brands is to develop, um, very high quality brands with great products that she wants to keep coming back to over and over again. So, repeat has been a really strong driver for us and that's a very um, consistent part of our business.
As it relates to tariffs, we're really in the fortunate position, and we say this in our release, that it's going to be a manageable headwind for us. First of all, because we have high gross margins, we're a 70%ish gross margin um, business. Uh, we're guiding to 71% for the full year. they actually raised our gross margin guidance from 70% to 71%.
Um so starting with we have a favorable cost structure but also we just don't have that much exposure to um the most challenged areas. Most of our costs come out of Europe. Uh and so we also are doing a lot of things to mitigate the impact to our P&L. We have other cost efficiency programs happening internally.
But all in it's a very again manageable headwind for us this year will be a manageable headwind for us again next year. Do you expect to be raising prices? We're not planning on it. We don't think we need to and we don't plan to. So, you'll take it from the cost part of it. Yeah. Again, it's it's not a enormous um it's not a very material headwind for us and we have a lot of offsetting factors, so we don't think we'll need to.
Lindsay, thanks so much for your time today. Appreciate it. Great. Thanks, guys. Super micro computer providing a business update and preliminary financial results for the third quarter. company noting during the quarter some delayed customer platform decisions moved sales into the fourth quarter. Super Micro's preliminary results show net sales and earnings falling short of the street's expectations.
Gross margin for the third quarter also lower by 220 basis points compared to the second quarter primarily due to higher inventory reserves. Shares of Booking Holdings, they're falling after hours. A company reporting revenue for the first quarter that did beat analyst estimates that coming in at 4.76 billion up 7.9% year-over-year.
The CEO saying in the release that there is quote uncertainty in the market and Corvo top and fourth quarter earnings and adjusted revenue estimates. Company's first quarter earnings outlook falling short of expectations. However, Corvo's revenue outlook did top Wall Street's estimates. Corvo CO saying the company is focused on its operational objectives as it monitors ongoing macroeconomic factors.
Well, that is a wrap on today's ask for a trend. Be sure to come back tomorrow at 4:30 p.m. Eastern for all of the latest market moving stories affecting your wallet. Have a great night.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5Hz-eT-2gDk
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English (auto-generated)
Well, President Trump signed an executive order that will provide some tariff relief for the auto industry. For more, we're bringing in now Aaron Keading, executive analyst at Cox Automotive. Aaron, it is great to see you. So, Trump stepping in here, taking steps to soften the impact there of these auto tariffs.
It it was a bit complicated, Erin. I'm curious first just to start high level, your thoughts, your reaction. Yeah, I mean obviously he hasn't declared it officially through any kind of formal notice, but we've heard that it looks like there's going to be some content reduction or price offset for manufacturers that are actually assembling in the US um where they'll be able to offset 3.
75% of the price for parts that are foreign parts. So remember, there's a couple of different ways the tariffs are being applied. Some are if you have a completely uh assembled vehicle entering the country that's the 25% and then there are the vehicles that are assembled here but are going to be paying for automotive parts that are coming into the country to build those cars.
That's where he's looking to potentially offset some of the cost. But at 3.755% and then down to 2 and a half% next year and then gone in the third year. Uh we're not necessarily anticipating this to be a huge relief although any cuts to tariffs will count. So I I I was interested and you're kind of leading me there and I just if I was a CEO and I was running an auto company how I would be thinking about this whether I would be breathing some giant sigh of relief or would I be thinking okay I'm just going to listen I I I was thrown something I'll take it. Yeah. I
mean, I think right now they're going to be happy with anything that's thrown their way because it's a complicated um calculus that they're all having to do and anything certain, more importantly, anything certain, something that's going to be dictated and stays so that they can start to do some real financial planning around what might happen in the future.
Um I can imagine that they're happy about. But this particular break is again just on um the vehicles, the parts that are going into vehicles. Just keep in mind that there has been no mention about vehicles, parts that are coming into the country. That would perhaps be for those that need to repair their vehicles.
All of those parts still being imported would be theoretically hit with the full 25%. And that of course will matter to anyone who owns used vehicles or has a car that they might need to get repaired sometime soon. And then furthermore, there was some talk around not stacking. Well, theoretically, a car that's coming in fully assembled may not have been subjected to the stacking tariff of teal steel and aluminum either ways, you know.
So, there's not really a whole lot of give there either. So, it's a little bit confusing. I'm anxious to see how the president actually um builds out some of the holes that we have right now. Uh we expect him to do that around six o'clock tonight, but it's not overwhelming me with a lot of great news from a bottom line perspective. If I'm if I'm running one of these car companies, Aaron, I'm running GM.
I'm running Ford. Bottom line, am I bringing back more manufacturing here to the states? Because that of course is Trump's goal here, right? That's what he wants. Yeah. I mean, you know, we've said all along, every automaker has been heavily invested in the United States, and we expect that there are going to be more investments in the country.
It's one of the largest automotive markets in the world. Um, and we do anticipate that assembly might be more possible, quicker. um building up our parts supply chain here in the United States. That's a little tougher um to imagine that we would be able to reshore as many parts in manufacturing that could really offset this whole tariff um imposition here.
But should I expect to see more assembly coming into the United States? Sure. Um will it be again enough to really offset what the goals of the president really hopes to, you know, attempt by this? I'm I'm not sure that I think it's going to be um a wash, if you will. Aaron, I'm curious if you look at the American automakers for GM, Tesla, are there certain names that are that are more relatively well positioned against this tariff threat than others that are that are selling a lot of what they're making here, right? All right.
Well, so it's interesting you say Tesla because we do know that they are one of the most quote unquote Americanmade vehicles in the country, but their volume is relatively small considering that they only sell electric vehicles. And we know that they only currently make up about 8% of sales total electric vehicles total in the United States.
Ford certainly is a little bit more well positioned, we think. Um, you know, Stalantis just behind that, GM just behind that. You know, with GM specifically, we know there's some challenges because some of their more affordable, popular volume models are actually imported currently, but we do anticipate that they will, you know, make every effort to try to avoid having to put a lot of cost onto those particular models.
Um, especially given their popularity and where they sit within their portfolio. Um, and then, you know, we can't forget that Honda, Toyota, um, we have several foreign automakers, if you will, that have substantial uh, assembly plants here in the United States and are almost on par with some of our domestic automakers. Do you think those foreign car makers, Aaron, are are they going to bring even more? Would you expect them to bring even more manufacturing here? Uh, remain on Trump's good side? I mean, after all, I mean, they can't obviously ignore the
American market, right? Too big, too lucrative. Sure. They can't. No, they can't ignore it for sure. Um, and I do think that you might see some swapping out of production. We've already heard that, for instance, um, Hyundai is saying, "Okay, well, we're not going to necessarily put the Tucson that we need in Canada.
We're not going to pull them from our US supply. We're actually going to bring those over from Japan." I don't think that that means that now there is quote unquote more production happening. It just means that we might be transitioning those Tucson that were originally manufactured here to go into Canada might now stay here in the US.
Uh but again, I think every automaker has a vested interest in making sure that they can um cater to this market. The profitability in this market is uh is is arguable and they need to they can't ignore it. Um and we know that Nissan, for instance, is looking at pulling back pulling back up into operation more shifts so that they can get more vehicles going here in the United States.
So I think we'll absolutely see an increase in activity. Um, again, it's anyone's guess and it's probably a fiveyear time horizon before we really see what has moved the needle from a production coming to the United States uh, perspective. Aaron, so good to have you on the show today. Thanks so much for your time.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CP0M_Ol2y8Q
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
Astroenica is on the move today after posting mixed results for the first quarter missing revenue estimates but beating on EPS. The pharmaceutical giant reiterating its 2025 guidance and says it's committed to investing in the US as the industry faces tariff threats from President Trump.
Joining me now we've got Pascal Soryat who is the Astroenica chief executive officer and Yahoo Finance senior health reporter Anelie Kemlani. Pascal, great to have you here with us this morning and thanks for taking the time. You're you're actually calling for no additional US levies on pharmaceuticals. What is the plan and and the analysis per Astroenica on that potential tariff threat? Brad and Madison, thank you for having me. It's pleasure to be with you.
Um we believe that uh the best way forward is to not charge uh tariffs on pharmaceuticals but uh create an environment that attracts investment through uh an attractive corporate tax rate. That's a general comment because as a company we have a very broad manufacturing uh footprint in the US. We have 11 manufacturing sites.
We manufacture small molecules, large molecules. We even have two large recent investments in cell therapy manufacturing. So we are relatively self-sufficient. The great majority of our products sold in the US are manufactured in the US. We actually export from the US. And there's a couple of products we still make in Europe and we are moving that manufacturing to the US very rapidly.
So we are not really affected by this in a great to a great extent. But certainly we believe that uh a great environment of you know supporting investment in R&D and uh creating a attractive tax environment would help attract investment. Pascal Angela here, good to see you again. And and you know, I've heard you say, especially on the call this morning, about the sort of lack of long-term impact here, but you've also been pushing a lot for the European regulators to pay attention and for governments to pay attention to this tariff move and its impact um really in
the continent. And so I wonder how does that uh you know really mix with your focus on moving to the US but then also as someone who is European looking at the local sort of domestic picture and why the push there rather than rely on those US exports. Yeah it's a really great question the I mean I think you've got to start from what are we trying to achieve as an industry.
We are here to uh come up with innovative medicines and in the last few years five to 10 years the innovation in our industry has exploded. There's a whole series of technologies that are bringing new medicines and make uh the day when we can cure some cancers not that far away. But to get there we have to have as many countries contributing to the global R&D effort.
And the problem we have is that a large a large part of our innovation effort in our industry is is actually funded by the US. So our view is that Europe has to allocate more funding uh to innovative pharmaceuticals. Um a greater share of their healthcare expenditures should go to innovative pharmaceuticals so that Europe allocate a greater share of their GDP to to this innovation.
Just like they have to allocate a greater share of their GDP to defense as well. Similar mechanisms. We have to have a rebalancing of investments and Europe has to contribute to this innovation effort. Uh and you know it can't be only the US funding it. Fair. And on that innovation point, I know that you're also in the obesity space.
I heard Arda say earlier that if you get your oral to phase two, you're going to start thinking about how to build out capacity. Is that an uncertain picture right now when it comes to US versus XUS market or are you looking at just focusing on the US right now when it comes to that? And as a follow-up to that also um does Fizer's removal from that race sort of give you momentum? Yeah, two great questions.
I mean, first of all, the the manufacturing part. We've been investing in manufacturing in the US, in China, and in Europe. Uh, but of course, the US is our number one priority because it's a larger market, lots of lots of unmet needs to to address and also a very strong innovation sector. Uh, so we will continue to invest in manufacturing, but also in R&D.
We have two very large R&D center one near Washington and one in Kendall Square in Boston in in Cambridge and Boston. So we will continue to make make those investments. In particular, we will invest in the US for the manufacturing at scale of our uh anti- of our obesity portfolio of products. So you know this will remain a great priority for us both from an R&D perspective but also uh from a manufacturing perspective.
Pascal you mentioned that pipeline as well here and I believe you talked about this on the call too. How as you're evaluating some of the rolloff of patents over the next few years here. How quickly do you expect some of those pipeline investments to be accretive to the business given the patent cliff that much of the industry faces over these next few years? It's a great question, Brad, but we don't have a lot of uh patent expireies over the next few years.
We have a couple of patent expireies that will affect us, of course, but we have enormous uh momentum in the rest of our portfolio of products. We have today more than 12 blockbusters. The blockbusters being defined as a product that sell for sells more than a billion dollars a year and they're all growing and we have new indications supporting their future growth.
We also have new molecular entities. This year we will have a large number of new clinical readouts, new products, new indications. So we believe by the end of this year people will be able to see investors will be able to see whether we are on track for 80 billion dollar sales by 2030. um because of the momentum they will see in our top line but also because of the delivery of our pipeline which so far has started very well.
We've had five successful phase three redouts so far this year in the matter of three and a half months. Astrogenica CEO Pascal Sora, thank you so much for taking the time here with us today.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_OS7y9JPE2E
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
I do want to talk about consumer confidence. Break this data for you. Consumer confidence falling for the fifth straight month in April to 86. Economists were expecting 88 here. Interesting to see the present situation number coming in at 133.5. That's just a touch below the prior number. Expectations coming in at 54.
4. The previous number was 65.2. So a significant move to the downside on those expectations. Joining us in studio to break it down, we got Yolena Shalyva. She is the Conference Board's senior US economist. Elena, great to speak with you here. What is your headline take away from this report? Well, expectations are at 13-year low.
And uh if you look at uh what consumers are telling us about jobs availability, they expect that uh to be really really poor. So that index is actually uh at its highest level uh since the great recession. the index that tells us that consumers expect fewer jobs available. So this is telling us this is getting to the consumer.
They were surprised by the tariffs. Remember this survey was taken right uh at the um you know at the high peak of uncertainty during the liberation day that is included in the sample. So I think consumers were very much surprised by uh the severity of those tariffs and they are actually expecting to uh affect their finances and their jobs.
So I I want to pull out a jarring stat from this print that I know you'll be aware of. The share of consumers expecting fewer jobs in the next 6 months 32.1% nearly as high as in April 2009 in the middle of the great recession. Totally. So that is a scaring thing and uh they are very much concerned about their personal finances as well.
So uh I think the JOL's data that you cited earlier that is an interesting one as well because the job openings rate fell to 4.3%. 4.5% is kind of the borderline between you know uh significant increases in the unemployment rate and small increases in the unemployment rate. When it falls below 4.5% this is significant. we should probably expect uh much more significant increases in the unemployment rate.
And yet you have stocks rallying at the moment. To what extent do you think that the narrative about consumer resilience over the last four years is perhaps being taken for granted right now by consumers? Do you think or or by investors? Do you think that that consumer resilience is going to continue despite the soft data? I think yeah, exactly.
The soft data and the hard data. When the hard data starts uh falling, that's where when we're probably going to see something. Well, the data on the last consumer confidence is about 12 year low and it does indicate that we may be heading into a recession. At what level would would you say uh we're out of that um recessionary potential? I mean uh usually expectations below 80 uh level is indicative of a recession.
We we are way below that uh for a few months now. So but it doesn't mean we're in a recession now. So uh you know there's been some disconnect between uh confidence sentiment indicators and the reality but I think we are going to start to see some uh follow through in the hard data. The one to watch is obviously this Friday and I think we're going to probably see a weak number as well even this early given that you know the tariff policy just went into place perhaps maybe it takes more time.
No, you think we'll see it immediately. I think we're going to see a freeze in terms of hiring. Maybe not layoffs just yet, but uh hiring freezes will impact the number and perhaps uh some uh layoffs in uh the industries that are more uh susceptible to this uh trade shocks uh such as you know trade and transportation and uh other things like that. Yeah.
What are you watching to determine when that labor market data will really roll over and be indicative of some pain? Unemployment rate and the details beneath that unemployment rate. So flows into unemployment from different uh you know uh sectors layoffs into um you know jobs into unemployment out of labor force into unemployment.
If that starts rising that's uh going to be a really u tricky situation as far as the uh government is concerned. We we we've seen quite a few layoffs the past couple of months and and how is that going to uh have an effect and when is that going to have an effect on the jobs report because the jobs report obviously huge lag effect on that with birth day uh uh birth death uh statistics but how soon will that show up in the data? You could see that this month this in this coming uh report the um big worry for the economy as a whole
from that statistic is that you know it's not just government workers it's the contractors and the relation uh here is you know you are going to see that pass through into contractors at at a rate of 2.5 2.6 jobs per one uh government layoff. So that's a pass through. Another thing is state and local government workers.
Are we going to see a slowdown in that sector? Most most likely because uh we are we ran out of uh the pandemic funds uh for them to hire people and the private sector. I think we'll see a significant slowdown in lesion hospitality uh for example because consumers are pulling back from this discretionary spending on services in the time of significant uncertainty.
So that is uh where we see we we're going to see some pass through I think. Yeah, Neil Zetta has been flagging that state and local government slowdown as something that is a significant risk for some time Elena. So thank you so much for bringing that up and for giving us great context on the data.
Appreciate it as always.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D8dQt7w_ZZg&t=7s
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
It's time for Yahoo Finance's market minute. Stocks seesawing a bit today as investors anticipate an announcement from President Trump around potential easings on auto tariffs. Meanwhile, shares of healthcare startup Hims and Hers surging on news that is teaming up with Novo Nordisk to offer an affordable option for obesity treatments.
Starting now, consumers can bundle a Hims and Hers subscription with any dose of Novo's weight loss drug bui for a single price starting at $599 a month. and SoFi posting strong first quarter results and lifting its guidance. The company seeing double-digit growth across all of its business segments.
And Spotify issuing a disappointing second quarter outlook. The company guiding for 689 million monthly active users in its second quarter. Analysts were expecting 694 million. That is your Yahoo Finance market minute this morning. For more on what's trending on Yahoo Finance, you can scan the QR code to track the best and worst performing stocks of the session.
[Music] Welcome to Wealth Everyone. I'm Brad Smith and this is Yahoo Finance's guide to building your financial footprint. Our community of experts will give you the resources, tools, tips, and the tricks that you need to grow your money. On today's show, finding a port in the storm.
The portfolio manager shares the key factors to look for in a stock to really dictate whether or not it could have real tangible margins of safety amid the recent market volatility and your investing playbook. All week on wealth, we'll dive into all things technology, how the sector fits into your portfolio, how to think about AI, and how to stockpick from the larger sector.
And on today's show, guess what? We're going to discuss which key areas of tech are risky and which may be safer amid the uncertain macro backdrop. Plus, recession fears could be leading to panic buying for many Americans. We'll get tips from a behavioral finance expert. So, remain calm and protect your money amid the uncertainty.
All that and much more coming up during today's show. But first, let's begin as we always do, taking a look at some of the market action. 90 minutes into the trading day here. We were seeing some declines. We are now higher across the board. Stocks largely wavering from what we've seen play out in the first 90 minutes of trade.
Investors wait for progress on trade deals. Joining me now, we've got George Cipellini, who is the pen mutual asset management portfolio manager. Good to have you here, George. Uh, you say investors need to find and hold on to real tangible margins of safety. So, how do you identify those? Hey, Brian, great to see you again and go birds.
Um, so I think I think if we think about this period that we're in, we are all operating through this fog of tariffs and it's pretty difficult and it can be scary at times. And so I think one of the things that again we're always proponents of active management and I think it's a little bit more important in today's world because you know you want to find companies that have great balance sheets that can survive any kind of financial disruption.
You want companies that have an operating margin structure that can defend themselves in a period of rising cost, which we which it looks like we're going to have today. And then you want great management teams. You want companies that have been through different cycles that have been through COVID and have operated through these different tough periods.
I think if you the if you have those combination uh that combination of of tangible margins of safety, I think that can really help your portfolio. And so as we're waiting for some of the earnings results from some of these companies that make up components of the Magnificent 7, four of them are reporting this week.
So as we're continuing to kind of listen in for how they're assessing the environment, what do you expect to hear, what is the tenor that they could signal that might bring some calm to the broader markets? That's a great question. because they were so important over the past few years in terms of their performance and their contribution to the S&P and all the major indexes.
I think the key thing is, you know, we're still going to look at this capex number that that people have been talking about that I know I've been talking about in the past. We want to see how honestly bullish they are about whether it's data centers or whether it's growth globally. I think I think again the risk that we want to read into and we're getting a lot of commentary and I think this quarter is almost a throwaway for the actual numbers because of what's occurred since.
So again the commentary is critically important because I think the main risk that hopefully everybody understands is that through this tariff period there is the potential that in a trade war the total pie shrinks. So I want to see signs that the pie is at least maintaining its size and and hopefully not shrinking.
And so with that in mind, you actually mentioned the kind of aggregate uh view and and perspective of earnings growth this season. According to some facts set data for Q1 2025, the blended year-over-year earnings growth rate for the S&P 500 is 10.1%. Now, if 10.1% is the actual growth rate for the quarter marks the second straight quarter of double-digit earnings growth reported by the index, but as you say, it's not about what companies did in the most recent or the past, but how they're signaling what the outlook looks like
for the future here. And so, how from your assessment are companies trying to position their businesses and their financial performance amid some of that uncertainty? really tough because again we're talking about a situation from a tariff standpoint that none of us have dealt with in our in our in our lives and many managers haven't dealt with in in a very very long period of time at least from a US standpoint and so I think what again we're we're going through all the commentary now it's really tough when you know you have GM or UPS or Sketchers
just say hey look guys we can't give you guidance we just can't do it it's too difficult so I think what we're trying to do quite frankly there's there's a couple ways to approach it as investors. Number one, you could focus on businesses that just won't be as exposed. Uh there's a domestic, for example, a domestic uh HVAC commercial HVAC company that we own there.
They they make everything in the US and they sell in the US. That's pretty easy. They're not going to be exposed as much to the tariffs. They might actually benefit because their competitors will be. Or, you know, a Norwegian ADR company that we own that that has a great dividend yield. It's a web browsing company.
again they're not going to be exposed to these tariffs. So I think that's the one track you can absolutely try your best from a bottom-up basis to avoid the tariff impact. The other way is to maybe be a little bit contrarian and maybe take the optimistic view that hey look this tariff thing isn't going to be forever or the tariff deals may work out pretty positively and again there you'd have to take a contrarian stance and buy what's a little bit uglier today in hopes that things will get better and the news headlines will be better moving forward.
George Silone, great to have you here with us today. Thanks so much for taking the time. Great to see you, Brad. Thank you. [Music] [Applause] It's now time for some of today's trending tickers. We are watching shares of BP and Uber. Joining me now, we've got Yahoo Finance senior reporter Alexander Canal.
First up, shares of oil giant BP losing ground after posting lower than expected net profit for the first quarter. This comes days after activist investor Elliot Management disclosed a more than 5% stake in the company. In late February, BP announced plans to cut renewable investments as part of a turnaround plan. And taking a look at shares right now, they are down by about 2.6% on this alley.
Yes, BP undergoing a lot of strategic changes right now. You were just ticking through some of those. We have this reset away from earlier green energy ambitions, a refocus on more traditional oil and gas operations. We have leadership changes. We have the Elliot stake. So, it's a period of transition for this company.
If we zero in on these results, you'll see that we have a profit decline of 49% year-over-year, missing analyst expectations. The company attributed the downturn to weaker refining margins and poor performance in oil and gas trading. Now, in response to this miss, BP did announce a $500 million reduction in capital spending for 2025.
That brings that number down to 14.5 billion. The company also plans to divest 3 to four billion in assets, exceeding its previous target. And from an investor perspective, shares have not done so well year-over-year basis. We're down about 28%. But year to date, which I think is interesting, we're only down about 4%.
So we're outpacing the broader S&P 500, which currently has declines of around 6%. So perhaps part of that is the turnaround effort, the Elliot stake. We'll see though if this strategic shift can hold and trickle through into the share price. Absolutely. We're also watching shares of Uber here this morning, too. This has been an interesting one.
Uber reportedly telling all employees they will be required to work in person at least 3 days per week starting in June. According to a memo viewed by CMDC, the policy will apply even to workers who were previously approved to work remotely. The company also raising the requirement for its one-mon sbatical program from 5 years at the company to eight.
Taking a look at shares of Uber here this morning. They are fractionally higher, but this is more of kind of a continuence in the RTO, the return to office policies that the financial services industry has probably been the most strict of most sectors about, but now we're seeing this also trickle into tech companies as well.
Yeah, Google is another one that's been pushing for this RTO. Big push from upper management. They say they don't want to be just good, they have to be great. And apparently being in the office equals being great. now Tuesday through Thursday. So, you can still work remote Mondays and Fridays. I do say if you were approved to work remote and you moved your life and now all of a sudden you're getting asked to go back to the office, that does stink.
However, we are seeing just this big push across the board and as an employee if these companies are reviewing their policies and they're changing things, unfortunately, you have to play ball or perhaps look for a new job. And think about Uber's business as well. If you are working remote, you're not taking Ubers as much.
I know personally for me if I need to be in the office early if I'm feeling a little lazy sometimes I will take an Uber to work. So fundamentally I feel like this makes sense but you know I I get the frustration on the employee side as well. I wonder if they still require them to drive a certain amount of hours too.
It was something that Dar Kos Shahi he had when he took over the helm of CEO. It was something that he was interested in making sure that he knew the experience from the driver side too. And I think that at that time there was a little bit more of the making sure that employees also got a gauge of how the platform works knew kind of the endto-end experience.
Of course, this is separate from RTO, but that's just something about the internal culture, right? Right. Which is really what this story is about here. Uh Ally, thanks so much for breaking these down. Appreciate it. You can scan the QR code below to track the best and worst performing stocks of the session with Yahoo Finance's trending tickers page.
Coming up on the other side of the short break, we've got much more of your markets action. Stay tuned. You're watching Yahoo [Music] Finance. SoFi Technology raising its fullear guidance, citing growth across all its business segments during the first quarter. On the back of the robust report, CEO Anthony Notto says the company plans to accelerate its rate of innovation in the year to come.
Joining me now to discuss the results, we've got Chris Whan, Whan Global Adviserss and Chairman. Chris, great to have you back on the program with us. Just want to get your assessment of SoFi here. Well, the growth rate is slowing but still quite impressive. Uh earnings were actually down slightly because of marketing costs and some other factors.
Uh but overall, you know, this is one of the best performing uh bank stocks in the country. It's still more fintech than bank. uh but they have gotten their uh deposit base up and the real issue for me I think is twofold. One is when does this company get big enough so that the overhead costs are not so oppressive. They're quite high.
It's 90% of net revenue. And you know the second thing is credit. The biggest item on their balance sheet is their unsecured loan book. Uh they're not known for that. They're known as a student lender, an innovator, etc. But you got to keep your eye on that student loan book because it's already thrown off more than 3%. And so with that in mind, oh, I'm I'm sorry you you cut out for a second there, Chris.
I didn't mean to cut you off, but actually to to something that you were mentioning a moment ago on the margin side of the business, I think adjusted IBTA margin rate, they hit about 27%. It sounds like you're not liking the overhead that goes into this business. So how do you think they can pull some of that cost out, extract that cost and ultimately perhaps bolster some of the margins that we are seeing at this juncture? Well, it comes down to overhead.
I mean EBIDA is not really relevant to a bank. I kind of want to know what interest expense is. So whenever I see somebody talking about IBIT with respect to a financial company, to me that's a bit of a red flag. But ultimately, you know, this is about overhead. the overhead expense, salaries, everything else at so far are the among the highest in the banking industry.
Uh we follow the top 10 and some banks for our index and this has been one of the better performers I think because of growth. If you ask equity managers why do they care about SoFi, it's because of the growth, not the profitability. But as we know, PayPal, Block, all of these darlings eventually achieve profitability and that's when the industry really shifts and the investor uh component shifts as well.
So that's that's kind of where I am on this stock. It's fine. It's a consumer lender, but it does have a lot of exposure to unsecured consumer. So far, the banking industry is down this quarter. You know, that recession we keep talking about has not materialized, Brad. So, so far so good, but if we see credit costs go up, I think SoFi will come under pressure.
You know, with that in mind, as as we're thinking about how SoFi and some of the other new fintech companies out there have emerged as viable bank options for consumers because for for a long time, you know, I thought about this meme that was uh popularly, you know, if not if not friend, then why friend shaped for these companies? If not bank, then why bank shaped? Um, but they've increasingly moved in that direction here.
What type of share do you think they'll be able to take as more younger consumers where they're touting some of these new member signups, some of that lifetime value that they might be able to bring to the table for investors as well? What type of market share do you think they'll be able to take and then retain longer term as they're bringing on more of these features? Well, this is the question.
$35 billion in balance sheet today. I would tell you given the overhead expense, they probably have to double in size to get that number down so it's more reasonable. And then long-term, if you're going into asset management, if you're going into consumer lending more, you're going to be head-to-head with some of the biggest players in the industry.
I would be surprised if this can get much bigger than about 50 60 billion dollars. Uh so really the issue for Mr. Noto and his team is what do we do then? Do we sell the business? Do we go head-to-head with Capital One and some of the others? You know, they're throwing off 3.3% net loss on their consumer book. That's a single B credit.
So, to me, that's that puts them up a little under Capital One. Is that really where they want to be as a business? Uh, in a recession, that number is going to double. So, that's kind of I think you ask a very good question, Brad. Given the business model, do we compete with Schwab? Do we compete with some of the others in the business? I don't know what the answer is.
Chris, always great to speak with you. Thanks so much for giving us the analysis. My pleasure. Great day to all of you guys. Thanks. Same to you. Home prices rose on an annual basis in February as limited supply continued to prop up the market amid affordability challenges. Let's bring in Yahoo Finance senior reporter Danny Romero to break things down here.
Danny, what do we know? Brad, home prices kept rising, but the pace is cooling down in February. So, the national home price index rose 3.9% from a year earlier, according to data from the S&P K Schiller. Now, that was down from the 4.1% annual gain we saw in January. Remember this is this data measures a threemonth period through February when mortgage rates were hovering around that mid6 range.
So, the index tracking home prices in the 20 largest US cities climbed to 4.5% compared to last February and down from the 4.7 annual increase in the previous month. Now, regionally, New York reported the highest annual gain, not shocking, among the 20 largest cities with a 7.7% increase in February.
Chicago and Cleveland followed with the annual increase of 7% and 6.6% 6% while Tampa prices fell by 1.5%. So economists say that due to the limited housing supply that can that continues to underpin uh home prices in most markets and so we are seeing slower and a more sustainable pace of price growth which is something we have been wanting to see because that also influences housing inflation at the end of the day which we want to see cool down.
All right, we're going to be continuing to keep tabs on these data points. Danny, thanks so much for breaking this down. Coming up everyone, investing in alternative investments. What you might want to consider adding to your portfolio. That's next on [Music] Wealth. Just about 2 hours into the trading session here on the activity that we're tracking.
You're seeing some mixed activity as of right now. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is higher by about half a percent, holding on to gains here throughout much of today's trading session. the NASDAQ composite, you're seeing that flat just barely to the downside that has touched both sides of the trades, hyper oscillating, waffling, whatever you want to call it, call it flat, but just barely to the downside right now in the S&P 500.
That flat but barely to the upside. Similar activity that you're seeing there play out in that line chart. Also, taking a look at some of the sector activity since we were mentioning the S&P 500. 11 sectors. Got them pulled up here on the screen for you right now. pulling up the caboose. You've got consumer discretionary that's lower by about half a percent, but more gainers than Lagards here.
This is different from when we started off the day. Right now, you've got XLR real estate leading the pack. That's up by about half a percent here. So, we'll continue to track that. Staples also catching a little bit of a bid here on the day. XLP is up by about 4/10en of a percent. I want to toggle on over to the NASDAQ 100 here.
Give you a look at some of those mega cap tech stocks here. You're seeing Apple fractionally higher, Microsoft fractionally higher as well, but a little bit of red coming into play for Nvidia, Amazon, Google or Alphabet, whatever you want to call them. Call them down 8/10en of a percent and Meta Platforms that too has been touching both sides of the trade.
That one is flat here on the day here. Uh we're also going to take a brief look at the Dow 30 components here and similar move in terms of the mega cap tech stocks, but also just wanted to put this on an equal view for you. We've got more gainers than decliners right now. United Healthcare is uh that is weighing on the Dow right now.
That's down by about one and a half percent. But there are a lot of other components that are holding the Dow higher right now and that is Honeywell that's leading the pack. That's up by about 5.6%. And then just lastly for all of you crypto curious people out there, let's check in on BTC USD. What's it doing? It's up right now by about 9/10en of a percent here.
We are still holding in that 95,000 range here. And I'll put this on a longer view so you can see some of the month-to-ate action that's really transpired. It's been a good month of April for Bitcoin despite being a little bit rangebound earlier in the month. As you're seeing right now, we've moved back into that 90,000 territory.
Retaken that over the past few days here. Of course, crypto markets don't close. Trades 24 hours. And there you're seeing over the past 24 day or 20 days rather uh were higher by about 19% there. Actually, that was calibrating for trading days. But all in, if I was to put this on a year-to- date, you can kind of see what's transpired over the course of the year for Bitcoin where we're still net higher by about 1% over the And that's still the month-to- date view.
Hang on, let me get you the YTD chart. There we go. Year-to date, we're higher by about 4/10en of a percent. So, we'll continue to track that. Up 1% here on the day, though. Well, this week we're talking all things tech investing as we get results from some of the biggest names in the sector. uh before you start investing here, you got to understand that tech isn't just one thing.
It's an umbrella term with several other types underneath of it. So today, we want to break down the differences between all of the different tech categories. And for that, I'm joined by Luke O'Neal, Catalyst Dynamic Alpha Fund portfolio manager. Luke, great to have you here with us. Just start by explaining the three different types of tech companies that are out there in the market.
Hey, good morning, Brad. um great to join you today. Thanks for having uh me on. Um yeah, when we talk about tech investing, as we as you mentioned, it's not a monolithic concept. When we say we're investing in tech, it's not investing in just one thing. So typically we're talking about investing either in technology hardware sorts of companies uh and uh semiconductor companies being number two and then software and services number three.
So hardware, semis, software and services would be kind of your classic three um areas of of technology and then you add in things like social media which are let's call it tech adjacent uh which are uh you know certainly within the overall ecosystem and so within that where is the largest strength within technology in what is an uncertain environment that we've heard about from multiple CEOs over the course of this earning season? Well, uh, clearly the strength is, um, it's very dependent on the exact time frame that you're looking at it, um,
over, uh, over the last couple of years, we've seen some significant strength across most, um, of that, uh, of the of the entire ecosystem. And as we think about just over these last couple of months here, as we get the tariff headwinds, uh, as we get more of the global trade mess that is going on, you're seeing more strength in, uh, in areas that are less impacted by that specifically.
And that would tend to be areas like software. software being relatively safer uh from an impact on global trade since they are primarily a digital delivery uh cloud delivery type of idea uh as opposed to needing to manufacture their goods. Um and so hardware companies that are manufacturing more significantly overseas tend to be more exposed uh to uh to tariffs u and and some of the current geopolitical issues that we're facing today.
Uh the flip side to that though is quite frankly that the software companies because of their business model tend to trade at a much higher premium. Um and so when there is a flight to safety in the markets uh like we've seen over over much of the course of the last two or three months you still see a downdraft in many of the software names simply because they were trading at a high valuation multiple.
um as you get some questions about global growth that impacts corporate belt tightening perhaps and potential spend uh on on software. And so there are different factors that are playing in uh to to the downdraft that we're seeing in in different parts of tech. But clearly software would be kind of classically viewed as the as the safer uh from a global trade perspective in this current market environment. Okay.
Okay, so that considered, what is a healthy portfolio allocation to these different components within the technology sector, the different industries that sit underneath of that? Yeah. So, I again I think it depends a little bit on what your goal for a portfolio is. Um, in our in our fund, which is a classic trend following momentum oriented strategy, we actually have exposure to multiple to really all of those types of of technology.
So, we've had an overweight for the last couple years in that hardware area, which again over a medium-term perspective has continued to be uh a great place to be u in in the overall markets. Um, and we still think that there's plenty of opportunity in that space and and understanding that that that area of hardware is not monolithic even in its in its own case.
So you have a company like Flex uh which manufactures a tremendous amount of their electronic components overseas and is far more exposed to the global trade war sorts of issues relative to another holding of ours a company like Motorola Solutions. So Motorola uh clearly has some foreign uh manufacturing. They've moved largely away from China, but their enduser, their enduser, end buyer tends to be government entities and police forces that are using their two-way radios, um, etc.
Those tend to be critical infrastructure, uh, types of ideas, which, uh, uh, you know, the the the potential to pass through cost is much more significant there. Uh, and so you're seeing a a very different sort of action, um, in even different types of hardware stocks. But then we also have significant exposure within the software space to companies like CrowdStrike um which again are in a sweet spot from a secular growth perspective and are not uh tremendously impacted by uh by the current issues that are that are plaguing the the geopolitics um area of
the world. You think about semiconductors, clearly semiconductors are in the sweet spot of or or maybe maybe the opposite of that from a global trade perspective. Very sensitive to global trade concerns. Yeah. But semiconductors are also perhaps as strategic and as secular of an idea as you can think of from a from economic growth over the next decade perspective.
So having some exposure there continues to be important. Luke, I got 45 seconds left for this rule of 40 question. How should investors who are trying to figure out their exposures to the technology sector think about what is commonly known by many investors, analysts, and executives who run these businesses as the rule of 40 and how it spells out some of perhaps their investability profile as well.
Well, I guess I'm I'm not as familiar with the with the exact details of the rule of 40, so I won't um I I won't I won't answer that question real specifically, but we think that having that balanced exposure across hardware, software, semis, and even services is is really important to uh to a long-term portfolio. Absolutely.
And just as education for our viewers out there, essentially it's just the revenue growth rate plus the profit margin uh equal or exceeding 40% there, which really gives them a sense of what the perhaps future holds for a company that is trying to grow out and scale its business, hypers scale in some cases.
Luke, great to see you. Thanks for breaking this down for us. Thanks, Brad. Have a great day. You too. As markets continue to see volatility amid changing tariff policy, investors are looking for ways to diversify their portfolios. One way is alternative investing. Joining me now on this, we've got in studio live in Living Color, Dave Danahoo, who is the Franklin Templeton Wealth Management Alternatives head of America's.
Great to see you again. Great to see you, Brad. So, let's dive into this. As we're thinking about some of these alternative investments, there's so many different alts. It could be anything from uh real estate, private equity to, you know, Pokemon cards if you wanted to think about it that way. But there's also different levels of liquidity.
So, let's kind of rank these and perhaps go in order from the most liquid to the most illquid of what we're seeing in certain alternative investments. Where does one start? Yeah, it's it's a great question, Brad. If you think about liquidity, generally speaking, you're talking about the duration, how long I'm going to hold an asset.
Private equity, primary private equity would be considered one of the more illlquid components of of private markets. you move into things like private credit, generally speaking, the duration of that asset is shorter and private real estate at sometimes perhaps even shorter than private credit. So that's how I would think about the liquidity profile, but the vehicle you invest in matters to how frequently an individual investor can or cannot access their liquidity and that's a key part of the business as well. Okay.
And so which alternative investments from your assessment of the market are the most liquid right now. So, if you think about what's going on in the market, it reminds me of our last conversation. Tariff concerns, concerns of an economic slowdown, potentially uh a heightened risk of recession. That's introduced volatility to the public markets.
But remember, private markets price off fundamentals, not sediment and volatility. Generally speaking, the vehicles, private equity, private real estate, and private credit that have been built for the individual investor offer chances at liquidity monthly or quarterly. So, we advocate using them, using them in a responsible way because of what they do for your portfolio, potential to enhance returns, decrease volatility, and people are seeing the power of that right now.
But it shouldn't be 50, 60, 70% of your allocation. It's a part of your allocation where you can afford to give up liquidity for a period of time to enhance portfolio outcomes. And so with that in mind, how do investors who are just trying to round out their portfolio a bit more and add some more of that longer term duration on through an alternative investment? How do they begin dipping their toe in perhaps so to speak within this type of investment strategy? It's a great question.
A couple ideas. One, work with a trusted professional. Work with an adviser. Organizations like ours, and there's many out there that do the same, have built websites that are um direct access for individual investors, no login required, where you can learn about the asset classes and the role that they play in portfolios.
At the end of the day though, history would show you that allocating 10, 20, or in some cases maybe more to these asset classes as a percentage base of an overall portfolio can provide real value. And so with that in mind, as you're thinking about what type of returns you should expect longer term, what what's a good rule of thumb as you're looking at and assessing alternative investments? Appropriate disclosures out of the way that not everything is created equal and you have to pick the right manager.
Generally speaking, if history holds, you should expect a couple hundred basis points, a couple percentage higher return out of the private markets than you do in the public market equivalent. So let's break that down. Sure. Private equity, you should expect higher returns than public equity over the long term.
And you're seeking growth there. Private real estate, you're seeking growth in income, just like you would be in a public REIT, you should expect a couple hundred basis points, full market cycle of higher return. Private credit, you're seeking income. Same to bonds, a couple hundred basis points, full market cycle of higher return.
All with meaningfully less volatility, which helps smooth portfolio outcomes. What is the difference in upfront capital that's necessary for alternative investments kind of and I know it's differing but on aggregate as it compare the the great news is the industry has really evolved. So a decade ago historically the only folks that could allocate to alternatives were the ultra wealthy or institutional investors.
As an industry we've created these vehicles that are referred to as semi-liquid or perpetual vehicles. And in addition to letting money in and out more frequently, they they are made available to a broader accreditation of client. You have to have a lower net worth to invest and you can invest at a lower minimum.
So these tools are really becoming democratized, more available to the broad investor base, which is a good thing if you think about the outcomes folks are trying to achieve with their portfolios. Dave, great to see you. Thanks for joining us in studio. Thanks for having me, Brad. Absolutely. Coming up, consumer confidence is cratering.
How to make sure your finances are in order. That's next on [Music] Wealth. Consumer confidence fell again in April, according to the conference board. That's the fifth straight month of declines and the expectations index hitting its lowest level since 2011. That's well below the threshold that typically suggests an incoming recession.
And here with some advice for increasingly nervous consumers, we've got Michael Leish, Wells Fargo head of advice and planning in studio with us. Michael, it's good to see you again here. I mean, this is not fun data and a reading to talk about when it's showing a consumer that's a little tepid right now here on a consistent basis.
What do you make of this reading here? So, consumer confidence and and you saw the data specifically mentioned tariffs as a concern and I think that's key here, Brad. And so when we think of tariffs, we think of uncertainty. Uh consumers have undergone a lot with inflation rates. And so that's what we're seeing here is that consumer confidence just continues to decrease because there's still uncertainty with respect to how high prices will go and what should I do about it from a spending perspective.
Right Brad? Absolutely. And so as we think about that too, are our consumers I mean yes, consumers are still spending, but it's what they're spending on and how they're spending that is clearly changing here. What are you seeing within some of that data as well? So when we think of the data, you can really parse it into three types of spending.
One is and we'll label it doom spending, right? And given un uncertainty, I'm just going to engage in some type of re retail therapy and spend and really ignore what's going on around me. Uh the second one is really your panic spending. So I want to, you know, get ahead of supply chain issues. I want to get ahead of increasing inflation.
And the third type of spending is what we see actually most consumers engaging in. And we saw it in our Wells Fargo money study where uh over 80% of consumers want to be more intentional about their spending carve off money to save and invest for their future self just in case there is a recession just in case they have to manage through a job loss and then to ensure that they're looking out for their future.
So that speaks to a little bit of the potential panic buying that we might be seeing some of the current uncertainty and and within that certain uh that uncertainty rather it also comes back to what prospects look like for jobs in the employment front as well here. We actually had seen the job openings and labor turnover summary uh come out this morning.
Number of job openings essentially little changed 7.2 million in March and then additionally hires that held at 5.4 million. total separations also little changed here. And so all these things in mind, it really does influence how consumers are thinking about their employment prospects and that also kind of dovetailing into where they're willing to spend at this juncture as well.
Absolutely. So when you think about being concerned about keeping a job or getting a job, which is what you're alluding to, really this idea of saving becomes increasingly critical and not just saving for opportunistic investing. Yeah. Which I know you talk a lot about on this program.
Um it's really saving to and and it's like that traditional emergency fund, Brad, to make sure I have 6 months, 9 months, a year to accommodate my spending pattern so I wouldn't have to change anything dramatically. you know, take a child out of school, you know, you know, think about not getting that remodel done that I've always wanted to get done to manage through that job, let's call it shift or change.
And so, we see a lot of Americans really being more intentional about that and carving off money so that they can plan for that rainy day. All right. So, let's help people plan a little bit here. What are your tips for managing finances right now in this type of environment that consumers are clearly thinking through? So, what we see in our data is not everyone has a goals-based plan, Brad.
And I know a lot of people talk about it, but they don't do it. And so, taking action on that goals-based plan, figuring out what is a top priority for you tactically. So right now your essential expenses and stress testing that what could you lower to manage through a cycle all the way to those long-term goals like retirement.
When are you going going to retire? Are you in retirement? How long is that retirement going to be? How much do you need to manage through those essential expenses? That's really critical get to get in place. Number one priority. Number two is look at the asset allocation. And you've been talking about this with different folks that you're investing toward.
Does it need to change? Does your risk profile need to adjust? Because over the past couple years, maybe there are certain positions that have gotten larger because they've run up in value. Maybe there are other positions that, you know, have less in value and you could do a little bit of tax loss harvesting and rebalance that portfolio so it's in the right risk profile for you.
Well, I'm not sure if you watched any of our segments about the micro retirements that Gen Z and millennials are powering, but I mean, look, it's got a lot of us trying to think about kicking the tires on that in the interim period of time. about managing investments right now, which is something that you you started to touch on there a moment ago as well.
How are you seeing people manage investments as they are trying to figure out where they can disperse cash versus where they also need to continue making sure they're being aggressive in their saving and investing habits as well. So, you talked about this with your uh prior guest Dave, this idea of liquidity.
People are really focused on liquidity in their portfolio. And so, you can think of that as a line of credit, you know, that's backed by their investments. You can think of that as more liquid investments and making sure you have access to cash in a bank account as well. So, people are really focused on this liquidity profile.
Then from there, looking at their mid to long-term investment strategy and trying to stay the course with the risks that they've signed up for based on three factors. The goal, the time horizon or duration of the investment because time in the markets, Brad, you know, this is better than market timing. We've seen, you know, the ups and downs of the markets, best and worst days, very close together.
We just saw it over the past couple weeks, right? Watched them. We watched them firsthand. So, you don't want to turn and burn your portfolio by following the herd. So, sticking with that plan and then dollar cost averaging into that plan so that you ride the ups and that you invest on the dips, Brad. That's really the core approach that we see investors taking right now.
I still have videos on my phone from some of the worst days and some of the best days that we've seen for major averages while I was on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. Michael, thanks so much for taking the time here with us today, breaking this down. Thank you, Brad. I appreciate it. Coming up, everyone, if you were affected by a natural disaster, your taxes could be due this week.
And we're breaking it all down next on [Music] Wealth. Millions of Americans were impacted by hurricanes in 2024. In light of the disaster, the IRS extended the tax deadline for some affected taxpayers in Alabama, Georgia, Florida, and the Carolinas to May 1st. If you're one of them and want to make sure everything goes smoothly, we have Andy Phillips, H&R Block, vice president of the Tax Institute. Andy, good to see you here.
Where can taxpayers find their extended deadline? Sure. So, first, thank you for having me. And as you mentioned, you know, tax day has passed for the vast majority of Americans, but we had a lot of natural disasters in 2024 and early 2025. For folks impacted by those disasters, they may have an extended deadline.
You referenced down in the southeast, we have several states or portions of states that are extended at least until May 1st, so a couple days from now. Uh, North Carolina gets a little longer until September. And then we have other areas like California um where you know folks impacted by the uh the fires that occurred um you know not too long ago have until October to file their 2025 or 2024 tax returns.
And so the best place to go to determine if you uh you know if you may have an extended deadline is to go to the IRS website. They have a complete listing or h&rblock.com. We can help you as well. So if you are allowed to file late, what you should what should you be aware of in that instance? Absolutely.
So the first thing is, you know, don't wait till that last second to do it, especially if you were impacted by the disaster. Maybe you had a casualty loss, meaning you had some loss to business property or your home or a vehicle that wasn't fully reimbursed by insurance and you may be able to claim a casualty loss. In some instances, you may be able to get that money back quicker by filing a prior year amendment to get that money back or to claim that loss.
Um, you may also need help reconstructing your records if you lost some of your paperwork. And so, it's really important that people don't wait till the last minute to do that, but instead, you know, get ahead of it now. Understand what benefits may be eligible to me and what else may I need to get together to file my tax return this year. Shifting gears here.
If you owed the IRS money this year, what should you do right now to make sure that that doesn't happen again next year? Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. You know, so one of the things I love to talk about during tax season is don't use that kind of tax, you know, preparation experience as just a look back on last year, but use it as an opportunity to make that plan going forward um to say, I want to get the best possible outcome next year when I go to file.
If you haven't done that, I'm going to give you two ways you can adjust your withholdings or your taxes to get a different outcome next year. If you're an employee, you can update what's called your W4 with your employer. That's what they use to determine how much tax to withheld uh from to withhold from each of your paychecks.
Now, if you're self-employed, you can adjust how much you make in quarterly estimated payments during the year again to account for, hey, I've had life changes or I didn't like my outcome when I filed a few weeks ago and I want to change that for next year. And here at H&R Block, we offer our clients a current uh a courtesy midyear check to avoid any of those surprises.
So, for instance, the W4, it's kind of like a mini tax return. if you're confused by it, good opportunity to get help because then you have, you know, an outcome that won't be a surprise when you go to file a little less than a year from now. Just lastly, we only got about 30 seconds here for those who are trying to figure out which of the deductions they can expect to roll off that they should start to really budget for this year.
What are the top ones that could come into into play once you're getting ready for next year's filing? Do you mean by like a change of law? Certainly. Yeah. So, the vast majority of the individual provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, that was that first uh President Trump tax package, those don't expire till the end of 2025.
So, the benefits that you, you know, you may have taken advantage of on your 2024 return. By and large, those are going to be available again this year. We'll have to see what, if anything, Congress passes and if there's anything that impacts 2025. But in general right now, what was available in 2024 should be available in 2025 again.
It will be 2026 when we see those provisions start to expire. Andy, great reminder. Thanks so much for taking the time. Thank you for having me. We're following breaking news. Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik confirming that tariff relief is coming to the auto sector. Lutnik saying that tariff relief will be available to all USbuilt vehicles and cars that are finished in the US and will not be imposed to tariffs.
Meanwhile, tariffs will apply to foreign car makers building cars in the US. The manufacturers will get a 15% offset for the value of those vehicles against parts imports. According to Secretary Lutnik, tariff relief will be phased in over three years to allow automakers to produce supply chains in the US. This is the latest as we're continuing to track some of the auto tariff exemptions that the industry had been looking for.
That's it for wealth everyone. I'm Brad Smith. Thank you for watching. You can stay tuned for Market Domination coming up at 3 p.m. Eastern time. [Music]
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WkCbgcyncE8
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
Oh, thank you very much. Hello, Michigan. Hello. We love you, Michigan. We love you. We just had the biggest victory in Michigan. They said, "Sir, it's going to be hard." Well, we won it twice. We won it twice. We actually won it three times. You want to really know? But I'm thrilled to be back in this beautiful state.
I love the state. Got a lot of auto jobs coming. Watch what's happening. The companies are coming in by the by the tens. You got to see what's happening. They all want to come back to Michigan and build cars again. You know why? Because of our tax and tariff policy. They're coming from all over the world.
They're coming up and they're opening up plants and they're talking to us all day and all night. They want to get here and they're coming in at levels you've never seen before. And I want to thank the auto workers for your support. That was great. But I'm thrilled to be back in this beautiful state with thousands of proud, hardworking American patriots.
And we're here tonight in the heartland of our nation to celebrate the most successful first 100 days of any administration in the history of our country. And that's according to many many people. This is the best they say 100 day start of any president in history. And everyone is saying it. We're just we've just gotten started.
You haven't even seen anything yet. It's all just kicking in. And week by week, we're ending illegal immigration. We're taking back our jobs of protecting our great American auto workers and all of our workers. Frankly, we're protecting all of our workers. We're restoring the rule of law, which was sort of out the window with this crazy guy we had.
How the hell did that guy ever become president? Could somebody explain to me? How the hell did that happen? There's my friend Blacks for Trump. I like that guy. I like He's follows me. He follows me. We love you. Your whole group has been so supportive over the years. I want to thank you. I want to Everyone thinks I pay you a fortune.
I don't know. I don't even know who the hell he is. I just like him. It's true. Thank you very much. Thank all of the fellas. Thank them all. But we're ending the inflation nightmare. the worst that we've had probably in the history of our country. Getting woke lunacy and transgender insanity the hell out of our government.
We're stopping the indoctrination of our children, slashing billions and billions of dollars of waste, fraud, and abuse. And above all, we're saving the American dream. We're making America great again, and it's happening fast, too. What the world has witnessed in the past 14 weeks is a revolution of common sense. That's all it is really.
We're conservative. You're conservative. You're liberal. Whatever the hell you know what it's all about. It's about common sense when you think about it. We're for common sense. We like strong borders. We like good education. We like low interest rates. We like being able to buy a beautiful car. And now deduct the interest on the loan.
That's never happened before. We want a strong military. We want low taxes. You know, the Democrats, they campaign on, "We will raise your taxes." It's the first time. You know, I haven't been doing this that long. Actually, compared to a lot of people, they've been doing it for a long time. They say, "You became president.
I can't get out of Congress." Or some of them can't even get into Congress. But, you know, I haven't been doing it that long, but all my life I've been watching and I've never heard people campaigning that they're going to raise taxes. It's always been, "We will reduce your taxes, Democrat, Republican." Now, they go, "We're going to raise your taxes.
" If our bill doesn't pass, the Republicans, we have a 100% just about Republican support. But would be nice if we had just a couple of Democrats just to make sure because you know every once in a while you have a grandstander Republican. We have some grandstanders. But every once in a while, not many, not many, but remember who those grandstanders were and vote them the hell out of office.
Okay? Will you do that? Vote them out of office. You know, they do it morally. They're morally bound. You know what the answer is? If you if you don't get it, you're going to have the highest tax increase in history instead of the greatest tax cut in history. If the Democrats prevail on this bill, you get a 58% tax increase.
Would you like that? These are the Democrats, but I've never seen all the years they campaigned, we will raise your taxes. I say, and what a this place has gone this country has gone crazy. And today they did it again. Some guy that I'd never heard of. John James, is he a congressman? This guy, he said, he said, "Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to start the impeachment of Donald Trump.
" What the hell did I do? Here we go again. They want to impeach me. This This lunatic This lunatic, he was up. Actually, I had the television weigh down and I said to our great first lady, "Listen, did I just hear I was being impeached again. We're getting good at this, though." No, they've gone totally crazy. These people, and you know what? They've totally lost their confidence, too.
They can't even tell a lunatic like this dumb guy that said it. And then you have the other one that's always with the cane. He's always impeaching. He raises his cane. He always impeaches. But they have no control over those people. They have no control. And the reason is they've lost their confidence.
They have no confidence anymore as a party. They have no candidates. And you know, when they say that Bernie Bernie's probably the best they have, by the way, he's about seven years older than me, more eight years older. One thing I got to give him credit. He's a lunatic, but he's still pretty sharp.
And he's going around with AOC plus three. You know the plus three follow. They hang on for little bits. They hang on for nuggets and they get crowds. They say, "Oh, the crowd was Our crowds are so much bigger than their crowds. Their crowds are small." If I ever had a crowd like their biggest crowd, they'd say, "It's over for Trump.
He's lost the magic." But this is great. And all the people outside, we love you. We put screens up. We're taking back our country from a sick political class that got rich selling America out and bleeding America dry. We don't let that happen anymore. And we had four great years. We had the greatest economy in the history of our country.
The stock market went up 88%. We did great. And we're going to do better now because now we're really we learned a little bit after years of leaders who sent your money to defend the borders of distant foreign nations. That's what we did. We'd fight for other nations but not for oursel. You finally have a president who is defending our borders and our nation. Dr.
After decades of politicians who destroyed Detroit to build up Beijing, you finally have a champion for workers in the White House. And instead of putting China first, I'm putting Michigan first. And I'm putting America first. After a lifetime of unelected bureaucrats stealing your paychecks, attacking your values, and trampling your freedoms, we are stopping their gravy train, ending their power trip, and telling thousands of corrupt, incompetent, and unnecessary deep state bureaucrats, "You're fired. Get the hell
out of here. You're fired. Get out of here." In 100 days, we have delivered the most profound change in Washington in nearly 100 years. I read a editorial today that this is the most consequential presidency in history. How about that? And it wasn't even by a group that would normally be supporting us.
It was a group of people that I think they tend to be on the liberal side, but they said it's the most important uh election, the November 5th. It changed it all. You have to see well you hear some of these numbers but that is the most consequential election that we've ever had in our country and what a nice thing.
I'm going to start again subscribing to that particular paper. Even if I don't read it much I'm going to subscribe. But it was a very nice compliment especially from them. They know who I'm talking about. We're ushering out the long reign of special interests and the radical left lunatics. And we're ushering in the golden age of America.
That's what we have. Right. Front R row Joe. Look at you. Front Row Joe's. I miss you guys. I miss the campaign. You haven't changed. You've lost a couple of pounds. Oh, he's probably he's probably getting to one of those jabers. You've lost a couple of pounds. You look good. And I have Mr. Wall here. This guy.
How many rallies have you gone to? Like hundreds. And we love him here. The wall. I'm going to one day I'm going to get that suit and I'm going to wear it on stage. We appreciate it, fellas. Great. Thank you. You know, we have a group of ladies. I don't know if they're here, but we have a group of women from North Carolina.
A large group, like 50 of the most beautiful women, and they've been to 129 rallies. They're happily married, I think, too. They just keep going to rallies all the time, but they're great. North Carolina, where we won by big numbers. Nowhere has this transformation been more dramatic than our southern border.
You have seen a change on your southern border that Sleepy Joe said couldn't happen. Sleepy Joe, the worst president in history, said it couldn't happen. The last administration engineered a massive border invasion, allowing gangs, cartels, and terrorists to infiltrate our communities and rape and murder our citizens.
And that is being nice about it. That's actually being nice about it. They are the worst. But standing before you today, I can proudly report that this heinous betrayal is over and that we have achieved the most secure border in American history by far. in American history. For two months in a row, we have now set all-time records, and this is by the media, the fake news media, which most of it is fake.
We've set all-time records for the lowest number of illegal border crossings ever recorded. Think of that. Ever recorded. The number of illegal border crossings released into the United States is down. Listen to this, please. 99.999%. Think of that. 99.999. Three people got in. Three. And I got angry as hell at Tom Hman.
How did you allow three, Tom? I called up Christy. Christine Nome is doing a great job. Tom Hol. I said, "How did you allow three people?" No, they allowed a few in for medical reasons. They honestly they had a couple of were very sick. The ones that got in were really very sick and we had to take care of them, but it was a few people.
But three people got in versus hundreds of thousands in the last administration. Hundreds of thousands a month were pouring in. Biden had no control. Thank goodness he appointed a great border. Right. Kamala. Kamala. Kamala. She was a great candidate. She is fantastic. Joe Biden was down 35 points. The debate was not a good one for him.
He said, "You know, if I didn't debate, I could have gone all the way." He was down 35 points and they decided to replace him. That never nothing ever happens like what happens to me. It never happens to anybody else. I had to beat two candidates. So he's down. This is like you're in a fight. Dana White, the UFC, you're in a fight and you you're just beating the guys so badly and they say, "Oh, let's put in another fighter." That's what happened.
And I knew nothing about her. She was vice president, but nobody knew a damn thing about her. She had nothing to do with the border. Even though she was appointed borders, the the great people, all of the great people, Paul and all of the border patrol people, they never spoke to her. They never heard about her for four years. She never called.
But there's never been such a difference in anything as the difference between the border today and the border what it was just six months ago. So, I want to say congratulations, America. It's about time. If we had not won the 2024 election. Oh, does that sound good? Right. We won the 24. All that work.
The radical left Democrats would right now be importing the next 10 million invaders and giving amnesty to 30 or 40 million illegals. Many of them criminals. Many of them frankly murderers and people of crime at the absolute highest level. Real real bad people. It would only be a matter of years or months until America itself became a failed third world nation.
We were that was happening to us. We were going to be a third world nation. I'll tell you what, if these guys won, if this group of radical lunatics, and by the way, you know, Biden, we find out that whoever operated the autopen was the real president. And Biden knew nothing about it.
You know, he had a group of radical left guys who were very smart and and a woman, a particular woman, very very smart people. These are not stupid people. These are sick people, but they're not stupid people. And they were very smart. What they're best at is cheating at election. They cheat on elections. That's their single greatest trait. They cheat like hell.
And let me tell you, they tried to cheat on this election, but we made it too big to rig. Remember, too big to rig. They tried. I watched those numbers. I watched those numbers. We had Elon with us. Elon is a smart guy. Elon Musk, Elon Musk. And I was sitting with Dana White and Elon Musk and I'm watching the numbers in Pennsylvania and we're winning so easily.
Then all of a sudden it flatlined. And I said, you know, I said, I think they're cheating again. Look at this. What's going on? I think they're cheating again. And Elon looked at us. He goes, no, you're going to win. They just don't know it yet. And about 15 minutes later, we won. you know, sort of crazy.
I'll never forget you're going to win. They just don't know it yet. But you know what? We made it too big to rig. It was too big. Starting on day one, I deployed the US military to defend our country from the invasion of our border. I shut down all migrant flights. Do you remember when we're talking about people coming in, they're trying to deny it? Okay, people are flowing in.
They said, "No, I don't see any people." It's like, "What's wrong?" But then we saw airplanes going overhead. We said, "What the hell are those airplanes doing?" Big Boeing 757s were traveling right overhead, loaded up with people. I say, "Where the hell are those planes going?" They were loaded up with migrants coming in illegally, flying in by plane, paid for by the US government.
I'll tell you, they are they are sick. They are You remember that day? That was the day we found out that not only do we have to defend it here, we have to defend it not only in the water, but we have to defend it in the air. The planes were going over us. I said, "What the hell is that?" I banned all welfare to illegals and I signed an order that will end automatic citizenship for the children of illegal aliens. No citizenship.
For years, Joe Biden and the media told us that stopping the flood of illegal immigration was absolutely impossible. He said it was impossible. He didn't know what the hell anybody was talking about. He said it was impossible that the president had no power to stop what was needed in the form of legislation. He needed legislation.
He had no power to get it. But it turned out that all we needed was a new president. Within days of taking office, I signed the Lake and Riley Act. Lake and Riley, beautiful Lake and Riley, who was killed by an illegal immigrant, viciously, violently killed. But I signed the Lake and Riley Act to facilitate the expulsion of dangerous criminal aliens.
And when necessary, we had to put them in jail. We couldn't take a chance that they'd come back in again. In recent weeks, ICE, who are great, these people are great, has arrested dozens of child rapists along with murderers, kidnappers, drug traffickers, and thieves, and frankly, people from mental institutions.
We've designated six murderous Mexican drug cartels as foreign terrorist organization. We have also designated two bloodthirsty transnational gangs, MS-13 and trendy Iraq, TDA. They've been designated the highest level of terrorist and that lets us do a lot of things that you wouldn't be able to do.
We got to get them out of here before they kill more people. They've killed plenty. My administration has increased arrests of known and suspected terrorists by 655%. Is that okay? We tried to get it higher. We tried to get it higher, but the courts are giving us a hard time. Can you believe? You know, I won on the basis of I think the number one thing was on illegal immigration, the border.
The people pouring across our border that are from all over the world. They're they're unbelievably bad in many cases. unbelievably bad people. I think that was the number one thing and now the courts are trying to say that, you know, that doesn't matter. I don't think it's going to be allowed to stand. Democrats have vowed mass invasion and mass migration.
We are delivering mass deportation and it's happening very fast. And the worst of the worst are being sent to a nononsense prison in El Salvador. Why don't you watch watch this? Watch this. Take a look. Get it. Get it. Right there. I
got Heat. Heat. scare me. Hey Hallelujah. Easy.
USA. USA. USA. So, under President Trump, America is a dumping ground for criminals no longer, they're not even trying to come in. But while we're fighting to protect Americans, the radical left Democrats, who are so bad for this country, are fighting to protect TDA, you just saw that, and MS13 criminals.
And you don't even know which is worse, but they are the top of the line. For years, Democrat politicians did not raise one word of protest as American women and girls were raped and slaughtered by these monsters. They were raped and slaughtered by numbers that you don't even want to hear about.
But the second we try to deport them, the radical Democrat party is racing to the defense of some of the most violent savages on the face of the earth. Who the hell would vote for these people? They're racing to the courts to help them. But this is not what the people want. This is not what they voted for in record numbers. I won the election.
We won every swing state. We won the popular vote. And we got 312 electoral college votes. And just this month, two Venezuelan members of TDA Strea were arrested in Washington State for kidnapping a 58-year-old woman driving a power drill through her hand to extort her bank account information, shooting her, leaving her for dead.
And miraculously, she just survived. But she's not feeling so well. In January, Trendy Ara member in Chicago kidnapped three women, took them in an alley, lined them up, and shot them each in the head. They all died. And the FBI recently assessed that these vicious gangs have been sent by the foreign regime in Venezuela to ferment violence and instability in the United States of America. Can't let that happen.
And it's not just, in all fairness, not Venezuela. It's all over the world. It's all over. They come in from the Congo. They come in from Africa. the Congo. They've emptied out their prisons into our country, but they come from Africa, Asia, South America. They come from all over bad parts of Europe. That's why we've invoked the Alien Enemies Act to expel every foreign terrorist from our soil as quickly as possible.
Never forget the same people that we now claim we're not and we're not going to we're just not taking this crap anymore. We can't. They're claiming that we're not allowed to deport illegals. And they're the ones who orchestrated an eight-year campaign to jail their political opponents. Do you know what I mean? They want to jail.
They want to jail. That's all they can do. Jail their political opponents. What they did to people is a disgrace. And now they come after us. Why are you not nice to them? Why are you not nice to them? They tried to jail your president. They tried to jail. Except for the really courageousness of a few very good judges.
You know, we could have been we could have been calling you from the other side of the bar saying, "Hey fellas, how about a little protest? How about a little protest?" But they cheered the assassination of CEOs, looted our cities, and destroyed our property. No, they tried to jail our politicians, and they tried to jail a lot of people, many of whom didn't even know what the hell they were being looked at for.
These people are criminals. If they had their way, we would be living in a third world hell hole. That's what they want. Removing the invaders is not just a campaign pledge. It's my solemn duty as commander-in-chief. I have an obligation to do it. Save our country. And that's why we got despite the fake polls.
You know, they do these polls where they interview far more Democrats than Republic. I saw them over the last few days and I had them checked out. They interview far more Democrats for the polls. They interview Democrats by big numbers and then Republicans by small. They say Trump only has a 44% approval rating.
Well, it's actually not bad, but when you figure that if it were a legit poll, it would be in the 60s or 70s. Is these people are a bunch of crooked people? No, they interview more Democrats than Republicans. In other words, they take the poll and they interview Democrats. They poll Democrats and then they say they try and depress it as much just like they write bad stories.
97% of the stories written about me, think of it, were negative. And yet we won in a landslide because they have no credibility. And also, we cannot allow a handful of communist radical F judges to obstruct the enforcement of our laws and assume the duties that belong solely to the president of the United States.
judges are trying to take away the power given to the president to keep our country safe and it's not a good thing. But I I hope for the sake of our country that the Supreme Court is going to save this because we have to do something. These people are just looking to destroy our country.
Nothing will stop me in the mission to keep America safe again. It's very simple. Keep America safe again. And our first 100 days have also produced historic results in the battle to defeat Biden's inflation disaster and bring jobs and wealth back to America and bring them back to Michigan. Okay, we want to bring it back. As an example, since I took office, the cost of eggs is down 87%.
Now, right, you remember a few weeks ago before Thanksgiving, before we heard about it before I heard about it a long time ago before Thanksgiving, I heard about it and then I was hearing that I wasn't president. This guy was barely president. Nobody knew. Was he president? Who the hell was president? To this day, I say it was the one that operated the autopen, but who what do I know? But I was hearing about eggs and then all of a sudden we have a great election victory.
And my first week in office, they start screaming at me, "What about the price of eggs? Eggs? Eggs?" I said, "I've only been here for six days." I was there six days. I said, "What's wrong with eggs?" They said, "The price of eggs has gone through the roof and you won't be able to have them for Easter.
" So, I put a very capable Brooke Rollins, who's our wonderful commissioner of agriculture that you know in Michigan. I said, "Broo, I've only been here six days before I heard, maybe even less, maybe five, maybe four, but it was my first week." And I said, "Broo, you got to save me here. I'm getting killed about eggs.
What the hell's going on with eggs?" She said, "Well, you can't get them. The price is through the roof, and it looks like we're going to have a real problem for Easter." you're not going to have eggs. I said, Brooke, that doesn't sound politically viable to me. That doesn't sound good because nobody's going to believe me when you get out there that it's Sleepy Joe Biden's fault.
So, Brooke, you got to get going, Brooke, please. And she did a great job. And you had so many eggs for Easter and your price was down 87% from that point. Prices are coming way down. You know, the fake news doesn't say it. They said he pledged. Now, I pledged state orders. I pledged all sorts of things, but they said he pledged to bring prices down. Well, that's what I've done.
They're trying to say the prices have gone up. Your energy, your car, your gasoline, and they have three states this week, a couple of days ago, that were $1.98 a gallon. So, gasoline prices are down by a lot. Energy prices are down. Mortgage rates actually just went down. Prescription drug prices just saw their largest monthly decline ever recorded.
How about that? Remember what you heard? Prescription drug prices just took the biggest plunge ever since they've recorded the prices, which have basically gone up except for my four years. They did pretty well, but uh we got to know that system. The system is a bad system, but they just took the biggest uh dive ever in the history of prescription drug prices. Think of that.
That's a big thing. I got to say it again and again because they will never tell you that. The fake news will never tell you that. Grocery prices have gone down. Everything's gone down. And yet, I saw this person on MSDNC, which I think is probably even worse than CNN. It's probably worse. probably worse than CNN.
But I saw this this horrible horrible anchor. How these people get jobs? I wouldn't hire them to do the most menial of chores. But I saw this person. He campaigned on bringing prices down. Every price has gone down. What am I going to do? I mean, think of it. Gasoline was almost $4 not so long ago. And now, Mike, we just hit 198 in a lot of states.
Think of it. and they're saying and and you know what and inflation is basically down and interest rates came down despite the fact that I have a Fed person who's not really doing a good job but I won't say that. I want to be very nice. I want to be very nice and respectful to the Fed. You're not supposed to criticize the Fed.
You're supposed to let him do his own thing. But I know much more than he does about interest rates. Believe me, core inflation has reached the lowest rate in four years. And last month, we had the largest drop in consumer prices since the pandemic. This is all done in a 100 days. Think of that. This is all done in a 100 days.
But when you watch the fake news, you see fake polls. Again, they poll Democrats Republican. Democrats aren't going to say, "I'm going to vote for Trump." And we still got 45 44%. But on the legitimate polls, I think we're in the 60s. I really I think we're in the 60s or 70s or something. In three months, we have created 350,000 jobs. Think of that.
For the first time in recent memory, job gains for nativeorn Americans now exceed job gains for foreign workers. This is for the first time and nobody even knows when. Americans now are doing better than foreign workers. How about that? I mean, that's okay. I want the foreign I want everyone to do well.
But that's okay. And to curb inflation, we're cutting a record number of job killing regulations. We beat in the four-year first administ which was a tremendous success. We cut more regulations than any president in history, including uh two-term presidents, including Roosevelt, who was more than a two-term president.
We cut more regulations than any president in history in one term and now our second term. And you know, I don't know why it was so important to win because they used to say the fake news, to be a great president, you have to serve two terms. So now we're going to serve two terms. Now they've taken that one. Cross. Right. Right. Dr.
Oz, cross that one off. Cross that one off. No, they say it all the time. When I was out, they say, "Well, they go out. Thank you. Thank you. But we've ended the radical left. Well, we actually already served three, but if you count, but remember, I like the victories. I like the three victories, which we absolutely had. I just don't like the results of the middle term. The results.
I don't want those results, John. I don't want those results. What results? What a disgrace. If we would have had this group for another year, we wouldn't have a country left. I really mean it. I don't think we would have had a country left. And now we're respected all over the world. They're coming from all over the world to see your president. They're coming from India.
They're coming from France. They're coming from Spain. Yeah. They're coming from China, too. Yeah. They're coming from China. They're coming from all over the world to see your president. They want to make a deal. They want to make a deal. And you know, we'll make deals, but we don't have to.
We are the ones that have the product. We are the ones at the United States. They want a piece of our product. We can just set the price. But I want to be respectful and I want to be nice. But if it takes too long, I'll just set a price. Say you could buy or you don't have to buy. We lost, think of this, we lost billions and billions of dollars a day.
Billions, not millions, billions of dollars a day. And under Sleepy Joe Biden, what's better, Crooked Joe or Sleepy Joe? Ready? A poll. A free poll. Cuz these pollsters are so corrupt. I This is a real poll. We're going to poll Crooked Joe or Sleepy Joe. Ready? What's What's a better name for us to call him? Sleepy Joe or Crooked Joe? That's I'm not surprised this happens.
I sort of loved Sleepy Joe, you know, it just had a nice ring to it cuz he had one ability I didn't have. He goes to the beach, right? And he could fall asleep or a cottage drooling out of the side of his mouth and he'd be sleeping within minutes. carrying the aluminum chair, you know, the kind that's meant for old people and children to carry.
It weighs like about four ounces and he couldn't get his feet out of the sand. And he'd sleep, he'd fall in this thing and with it and he'd have, you know, he's president, so you'd have cameras. He'd be in a bathing suit. Somebody convinced him that he looks great in a bathing suit. He's 82 years old.
Carrie Grant didn't look great in a bathing suit when he was 82. You don't look great. you know, at some point you you have other assets, okay? But that's not real. But he'd he'd go and he'd walk in the sand and he'd fall into that thing and within seconds he was sleeping. I'd be tossing and turning and scheming and thinking and saying, "How am I going to beat China? How am I going to stop the war with Russia and Ukraine?" This guy could fall asleep with cameras blazing, right? Not too many cameras were blazing, but enough were blazing that you saw it. I thought
it was a great ability that he had, actually. We've ended the radical left war on American energy. We've stopped their crusade on coal. Did you see what I did the other day? Clean, beautiful coal. I said, you're not allowed to use the word coal unless you say clean, beautiful coal. So, you have guys getting up, Department of Energy.
We have great people at Department of Energy. They talk about clean, beautiful coal. You know, China uses coal. They're opening up a coal plant every week, a massive coal plant. But we're not allowed to use it. But now we are because last week I gave it absolute total approval. And you know what? I don't give approval to those stupid windmills that go round and round and round.
And we've ended the Green Dew scam. We've reopened Anoir, the greatest drilling site anywhere in the world in Alaska, and implemented the new energy policy of the United States. You know what it is? We have a policy. It's called drill, baby drill. That's our policy. That's our policy, Michael. Right. Great Michael Watley, head of the Republican party. He's done a good job.
him and Laura, they took the party by storm, right? He had but he had a good candidate, but had a couple of good candidates, didn't he? Michael's been incredible, actually. Michael Watley, North Carolina. He watched in in 2020. He did so good for me in, you know, he was in North Carolina. He did so great. What's the problem over there? What's the problem? Is that a radical left lunatic? He's just a child.
All right, get him out. Yeah. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, ma'am. I thought it was a guy. Thank you. And she now has to go home to her mother who's a big Trump fan. Her mother's watching. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I I said he and it's a she. I'm sorry. To keep my promise to the great state of Michigan, I terminated Joe Biden's insane electric vehicle mandate where you were mandated to buy an electric vehicle.
You were mandated within just a few years to buy an electric vehicle. How about that? And you know what? They're great, but people don't. Not everybody wants them. You got to be able to buy a hybrid, a gasoline powered car. You can buy lots of different cars, but you can't be mandated to do anything. And I've already proudly imposed a 25% tariff on all foreign automobiles.
Any any foreign car like they do, Todd. This is going to create more jobs in this state and this country. And to help these auto makers bring their factories home as rapidly as possible, I've just signed an executive order to give partial tariff rebates to any company that assembles its cars right here in the USA.
In other words, in other words, if they can't make it in time, because they have to do it here, otherwise they have I'm giving them a little bit of a break, right? They took in parts from all over the world. I don't want that. I want them to make their parts here, but I gave them a little bit of time. It's 15% and then 10% of the parts. So, it's not so bad.
Somebody would say, "Oh, well, that's a change in part." It's not. It's called a little flexibility. The guys were crying. They love it. Everything's good. But just in case we can't get everything in time, we gave them a little bit. So, it's 15% of the parts and then it's 10% of the parts.
We give them a little time before we slaughter them if they don't do this right. They're going to make so much money. They're going to have so many jobs. No, but jobs are way up. Jobs are way up. We're pleased to be joined tonight by Brian Panbecker. Do you know who that is? Of the auto workers for Trump. And Brian is a union guy. Loves the unions.
Loves everything. But he knew that Trump was right. Brian, come up here. Brian, I got to see Brian. Look at the arms in this guy. Look at the arms. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President. It's a great honor to be here on your 100th day in office of your second term.
And I just want to remind you of something I told you at one of your last rallies before the election. I've got it on video. I've watched it dozens of times at home. After I was able to speak, I turned to you and I said, "Mr. President McComem County is going to win Michigan for you. And that's exactly what happened. We had a margin of victory of 70,000 votes in this county alone. Thank you, Mcome County.
You know, I met President Trump eight years ago in Novi and uh we had never met before. And as I was stepping towards him backstage to get my picture taken, I knew I only had 10 15 seconds to say something to him before we got our pictures. Fortunately, my son was standing behind me. So, I've got a witness to this. And I said, "Mr.
Trump, we've got the keys wait to the White House waiting for you in Mcome County." and he kind of chuckled. He said, 'Oh yeah, how's that? And I said, 'Well, Mcome County is the home of the Reagan Democrats. If you come to Mcome County and you ask for their support and you get it, you might win Mcome County big enough to carry the whole state of Michigan.
And that's exactly what he did. So, I want to say thank you to the auto workers, everybody who works in the automotive field, the suppliers, every one of you, the truck drivers. Thank you so much for supporting the greatest president in our lifetimes. Now, I've got a little uh business announcement I want to make. I hope the president doesn't mind.
But when I was backstage with him earlier and got my picture taken, I said, "Mr. President, I've got a deal that you can't refuse." And he said, "What's that?" And I said, "Well, I'm writing a book and it's going to be about my political journey. I've been involved in some things here in Michigan, conservative causes like right to work and the Michigan civil rights initiative.
" and and I said, um, you have a publishing company, Winning Team Publishing. It's run by Don Jr. and his partner. I said, I'll agree to use your publishing company if you agree to write the forward to my book. He stuck out his hand and said, "I'll do it." That's how you negotiate with the best negotiator in the world.
So listen, I got one last thing to say. All of us have a job to do. Number one, we have to win the 2026 elections. It has to happen. Shri Danadar, that lunatic Democrat from Detroit, is already threatening to impeach President Trump if they get the majority back. But luckily, right now, we've got good people in Congress like Congressman John James over here who are stopping that from happening. But listen up.
So, we got to get out and and we don't have any time to waste. We got to start talking to our friends, our neighbors, our family, our co-workers. The the campaign for 2026 starts tomorrow. We've got to win that election. So, the work is not over. The work has just begun. November 5th was not the end.
It was the beginning of the golden age. And let's all let's all tell President Trump how much we support what he's done the first 100 days in office. Oh, yeah. I forgot there's one other thing I wanted to say in front of all these thousands of people to President Trump. President Trump, I love you. That's great. Thank you. Good. Good man. He's a great guy.
You know, he was with me from day one. 2015 before 2016. He was there from day one. He got it. He said, "We're losing our car industry." That's what he really cared about. He lo He just said, "I had so many friends. They were laid off. It's horrible. They lay us off like it's nothing." And the business went to China.
It went to Japan. Went to all countries all over the world. They're laying us off, sir. Then he said, "We can solve that." I told him, "We can solve that so fast." He's one of the early people that got it. And we've solved it. We're going to be doing numbers that nobody's ever believed. We have We'll be the number one in the world again.
Nobody can believe it because we have been beaten up so badly by these countries that have rigged the whole thing. They they fight like hell. They're smart. Their product is good, but our product's going to be a lot better. We're going to do something that nobody believes and he saw it right at the beginning.
So, I appreciate it, Brian. And he was there at the I love the guys from the beginning. I love those early guys. Those guys are right there. They were there from the beginning, too. No, you you're going to see numbers and you're already seeing them. Look, you know, we have many Hondas coming in and they're coming in.
They can't We let them build their cars here. We don't want them to build them in Japan. We love Japan. We don't want them building them in Japan. We want them to build them here. We want China to build them in here. We want them all to build them right in here. That's what they've done to us for 40 years.
And they've drained us. Now we're doing it to them at a better level than they ever dreamed possible to further rebuild the industrial bedrock of our country. I've imposed 25% tariffs on foreign aluminum and steel. It's keeping our steel mills going. I did that. If I didn't do that with steel in the first uh my first term, we wouldn't have a steel mill in the United States right now and everybody knows that.
I did it for washing machines, too, by the way. That's why I asked the people at Whirlpool. They were going to close. They were in deep trouble. I did it because they were dumping machines. I did a 50% tariff. Was going to raise it to 100%. They didn't even have to bother. They became a tremendously successful company overnight.
They were ready to close. They came to me with tears in their eyes in my office early on first term and uh we're doing it now at levels never seen before and it the results are going to be even better even better because we've been abused by friend and foe and in many cases friend has abused us more so than foe on trade.
So I want to just let you know you're going to be very proud of this country very soon. And with my China tariffs we're ending the greatest job theft in the history of the world. China's taken more jobs from us than any country has ever taken from another country. And that doesn't mean we're not going to get along. We'll get along with China.
I mean, the tariff now is at 145%. So essentially, they said that's a big difference between that and zero. But I think it's going to work out. They want to make a deal and they're going to we're going to make a deal, but it's going to be a fair deal. It's not going to be a deal that we lose a trillion dollars a year like they did with Biden. That guy was so bad.
He was so bad under Biden. And remember this, we were losing $5 billion dollar a day on trade. And now we're making money. We're actually making money instead of Do you know what? Five billion. Think of that, Mike. Five. How many pillars you have to make to lose five billion dollars? You can make them for a thousand years.
No, we were losing five billion dollars a year. Now we've got it where we're making money. And the tariffs haven't even really kicked in. The 25% on cars have. But you know what that means? That means that you're going to make the cars. We don't need the cars from outside. When they say, "Oh, sir, we want to send you a lot of cars.
" I said, "We really don't want your cars. We really don't want We want to make our own cars." That includes Canada. That includes Mexico who have taken tremendous a tremendous amount of our business. Canada's taken off a tremendous like 10 12%. Mexico is 32%. They took 32% of our car production. We don't want them to have that.
We want that. Why are we giving it to them? Why are we subsidizing Canada $200 billion a year? Why are we subsidizing Mexico for $300 billion a year? There's no reason for it. I'm proud to be uh the president for the workers and not the outsourcers. A president who stands up for Main Street, not Wall Street.
You know, I like Wall Street. I like Wall Street. I have a gorgeous, beautiful building on Wall Street, 40 Wall Street. Anybody? You want a little space? I'll get you some space real quickly. Now, I've got one of the most beautiful buildings in the world on Wall Street. But I still like Main Street because you're Main Street.
I want Main Street over Wall Street. And we uh want to protect the middle class, not the political class. That's all. I haven't done this very long. We want to protect We want to protect our people. You know, this is the greatest when you think about this. Look, here we are. It's not even like election.
It's after the election and you have crowds like this. And at TAM, we're going to do the commencement at uh University of Alabama. And they just called and they said, "This going to be the biggest crowd we've ever had for we've never had a crowd like this." And I'm doing it at West Point. And they called and said the same thing. We love West Point.
We love University of Alabama. We love Alabama. You know how what I want Alabama by? like uh almost 50 points. So when they called me to say, "Would you like to do the commencement?" I said, "Okay, I'll do it." But they're going to have the biggest crowd they ever had by maybe four or five times. They told me, "Thanks for all of the things that we've done into our policies.
Trillions of dollars are now pouring into the United States because of common sense." Just common sense. Apple, great company, was building everything in China. And now they just announced that they're spending $500 billion dollar to invest in America, not in China. My friend Jensen from Nvidia, they're spending, you know what Nvidia is? They're spending $500 billion.
TSMC, the biggest chip maker in the world by far from Taiwan. They're spending $200 billion dollar in the United States. Amazon $21 billion. Johnson and Johnson $55 billion. The Mac $20 billion. Merc Stalantis, General Motors are putting in billions and billions of dollars and many other companies.
And as a result of our policies, for the first time in modern history, more Americans believe that our country is headed in the right direction than the wrong direction. They have a poll, a crazy poll, probably a fake poll, too. So, I don't know. I don't care. But first time ever in I think ever that they're saying the country is headed in the right direction.
Has never happened before. I don't know why, but we've accomplished more in three months than most administrations accomplished in four years or even eight years. And we're just getting started. Believe me, we're just getting started. We're pleased to be joined by some great people. A person that I number one I have so much confidence in him.
They the fake news is after him. Really after him. But he's a tough cookie. They don't know how tough he is. Secretary of Defense Pete Heg. Pete. Wow, that's pretty good. How are the hoodies doing? Not too good, right? Not our new administrator of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, somebody that everybody knows, but this guy, you know, the show was a big success, but sometimes it hurts your image to have a television show.
He's the top. I mean, he went to Harvard. I shouldn't even mention that anymore because that used to be a good thing. today. It doesn't mean much, but he went to University of Pennsylvania Medical School. Top student, top doctor, top everything. One of the smartest guys in medicine, also a big star, Dr. Meett Oz.
Dr. Oz. Thank you, doctor. Thank you. A man who waited today just came here. He was all sweaty and grimy. I said, "What the hell happened?" He ran into the building because he wanted to vote in Congress. And I hear we passed the vote, John James, by a lot. Right. And thank you for making it here. He wanted he had a vote.
I said, John, do me a favor. Stay and vote. We're voting essentially on the big beautiful that gorgeous big beautiful bill. I said, you know, I want you there badly, but you got to vote, please. So, thank you very much, John. Good job. Michigan House Speaker Matt Hall. Matt, thank you. Thank you, Matt. Michigan Senate Republican Leader Eric Nesbet. Thank you, Eric.
Thank you very much. Michigan GOP Chair Jim Runstead. Thank you, Jim. Good job. Nice time. Thank you, Jim. Great job. One of my favorite people. I mean, we just had such success. You know, we had uh so many votes stolen in 2020. And then this guy came in and they didn't steal them from his state, North Carolina. Told you.
But they didn't steal them. He had 601 lawyers and they had lawyers at every voting booth. And I said, "Who is that guy that did so well?" Because we won the state. Other states, you know, they inched us out and, you know, at the end they inches, they just inch uses out crooked as hell. But this guy didn't let that happen.
His name is Michael Watley, North Carolina. and now he's the head of the Republican party RNC and he's great and I must tell you he worked with a great woman my daughter-in-law Laura who was unbelievable who's got a very successful television show that was a tremendous combin that was a very important combination also the great and you see him on television he's unbelievable Stephen come up here fast the great Stephen Miller do we like Stephen who Come here, Stephen.
I love this guy. I love this guy. There is nobody smarter or tougher than Stephen Miller. Stephen, say who's enjoying a hundred golden days of America. President Trump has achieved the most secure border in American history. He's fighting violent crime. He's fighting the drug cartels. He's cutting your taxes. He's cutting wasteful spending.
He's draining the swamp. He's standing up to the radical left. He's standing up to the communists. And he's making America stronger than it's ever been. President Trump will never stop fighting for you, your children, and your family. And President Trump will make sure that in this country, not illegal aliens, not criminals, not gang bangers, but American citizens come first, last, and always. Thank you.
And thank you, President Trump, for being the greatest president in American history. He's great. This guy, he is something special. and he's been with us right from day one. Right from day one, Stephen's been there, right? He's been great. A man who put on about 928 rallies for me. We didn't have we didn't have a glitch. Justin Caparell.
Justin, thank you. Wherever you are, he's probably backstage working. We did we did over 900 of these. Thank you, Justin. And Margot Martin. Does anyone know Margot? Beautiful Margot. I call her the world's greatest photographer. Where is Margot? Margot is great. Where are you, Margot? And she's very shy, actually. She's both beautiful and shy.
Thank you. Where? Where? Margot, come up here, Margot. Come up. Come up. You got to This is the most beautiful. Now, I'm not allowed to say this. It's the end of my political career, but I'm going to say it anyway. She's the most beautiful photographer in the world. I don't know if she's the best, but she's the most beautiful.
Trump 2028. Anybody? People love Margot. And how about Caroline? How's Caroline doing? How is our Caroline doing? Caroline has taken the world by storm. She's taken it. And you know, we have a a man here that I don't know, but he's defending me all the time on CNN. And he defends me really well, but he can't go too far because if he goes too far, he'll get fired.
I said, "You're amazing. You can take it right to the edge." And he really does a good job. He's not allowed to go any further. He would be off, you know, if he really went totally crazy, which he'd like to do. But I think he's terrific. Scott Jennings. Where's Scott? Where are you, Scott? Come here, Scott.
This guy really, I've watched him for years. I don't know him, but he likes Trump. Come here, Scott. Oh, CNN. This is the end of Scott. Who cares? Don't worry. We'll take care of you, Scott. Scott Jennings. Really great. Thank you. Thank you. Michigan. We were flying in here today and I said, "Look at these farms. I got to get a farm in Michigan cuz when you own as many libs as I do, you got to put a place to put them all.
" Thank you all very much. Thank you, Scott. And I also want to thank the rest of the Michigan Republican delegation for all the work they do in Congress and who are back in Washington working on the big beautiful bill. The big we're going to name it, I think, the big beautiful bill. In a 100 days, I've taken more than 1,000 executive actions and I could recite our accomplishments all night long.
And by the way, did you just see what I did? Straws. I wiped out the paper straw. Little thing. These are the little things. your sink. You ever try buying a new sink and no water comes out? Your showerheads, your toilets, the whole thing. It's a disaster. We now have it so you can have as much water as you want because it's not an environmental problem.
You have areas they can't get rid of their water and yet they have they put restrictors on them. You used to take them off, but now you can't because they're welded in. But now you don't have to worry about that because we've opened up your faucets and we've opened up especially me. I don't like taking a shower where the water goes drip, drip, drip onto my luxurant hair.
I need a lot of water. I need everything I can get. I don't need to be under a shower trying to get water to come out of that damn thing. So, we've opened up the shower heads, the faucets, the toilets, the washing machines that don't give you water. All of that stuff has been opened up and we're giving you gas ovens, gas stoves if you'd like.
No more electric. You can have electric if you want. I have a lot of friends. They like gas better. You're supposed to sell your gas stove or get it. I don't know who do you sell it to. Maybe another country because we're the only country that would be so stupid to that. But uh the stoves now you can have gas stoves all you want.
Put four of them in your kitchen. I couldn't care less. It's all common sense. People were so angry about that. Remember they were all angry. Get rid of your gas stove. You have to go to electric. There's something they have with electric that's amazing. And by the way, Elon makes a great car, but not everybody's going to want it.
You know, they all say, "Oh, well, Trump is maybe he's under the under the thumb of Elon." Do you think Elon was happy about ending the all electric mandate? I don't think he was too happy, but he's a great guy, you know, honestly. Never said a thing. He says, "Let me just compete fairly." By the way, it's not fair what they've done to him, too.
That is a disgrace. That is a disgrace. But he's a great guy, and he's really helped us. And, you know, they've saved $150 billion dollars on waste, fraud, and abuse. Doge. So, we want to thank him. He's a incredible guy. anybody that can land a rocket ship. I saw this thing come in. I said, "You got to be kidding. This rocket's coming in.
" You know, most of them go right into the ocean. But he lands it. I was on the phone with somebody talking and I saw this thing coming in. It's spinning out of control, coming down. It's all burning. It's on fire. Looks like hell. I said, "Well, just another rocket going into the ocean." And then all of a sudden, you see the fire pouring out of the engines and it starts to slow up slow. Then it's straight.
Then it starts moving over a little bit. Then I say, "Oh no, it's hitting the gandry. It's gonna hit, you know, and the engines go straightens it out and it gets hugged like you hug your beautiful little baby, right?" And I said, "Who the hell did that?" It was Elon. and he told me, "You don't have a space program if you have to drop a billion dollar machine into the water every time you fly.
You have to save those suckers." So, he does. He's he's an amazing guy and he's a great American and he loves our country. He loves you. And uh he's paid he's paid a big price to help, but I have a feeling it's going to end up being good for him. Actually, I really do. I established the new presidential commission to make America healthy again chaired by our new secretary of health and human services, Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
, he's doing a good job, Dr. Oz, right? He's doing a good job. And he's a little bit different, but I want to tell you, he's a great guy. He's a great guy and he loves this country. Just last week, Bobby announced that we're banning eight major artificial dyes from our food supply. Sounds good to me.
And on day one, I created that very right right now very successful Department of Government efficiency headed by Elon. That was a big thing doing that. I mean, the numbers are really incredible. Doge. So, it was a very big thing. We terminated the left-wing money laundering scam known as USAID. How about the money that was going out? How about the money that was going out? Billions and billions.
They were giving individual people billions of dollars. Can you believe it? People that had nothing. They got a billion. They got one got two billion. Two billion for the environment. Had a $100 in the bank. They got $2 billion. Not two million. You know, two million would have been a lot.
$200,000 would have been a lot, but it would have been fine. Two billion dollars. And we directed all federal workers to return to the office in person or unfortunately they're fired. You're fired. You know, some of these guys got their golf handicap way down during the so-called time where they're supposed to be working at home.
You know, they weren't working at home. Who the hell would work at home? How do you work at home? They're terrible. And we, you know, we found a lot of them where they had second jobs. They were just taking us for a ride. They're all taking us for a ride. The foreign countries were really taking us for a ride, both on military and on trade.
But we stopped it and we're stopping it. I withdrew from the unfair and ridiculous Paris climate accord where we were paying trillions of dollars. We would have spent numbers like you wouldn't believe. And China wouldn't have spent anything. Russia wouldn't have spent anything. India wouldn't have spent. But we would have spent over a trillion dollars.
I withdrew from the corrupt World Health Organization where where we were paying $470 million and China was paying with a population quite a bit larger than ours. Thank you. Where let's the problem with us. We have no idea what size our population. They allowed so many people on under Biden. But let's assume it's 325 million. China's 1.4 billion.
We were paying $470 million and China was paying $39 million and China was running the whole show. So I said, "No, thank you." I withdrew. They offered me to sign up at 39 million. I still said no because it was sort of scammy. I didn't like it. And Biden came back in and he signed up. And they knew we could have signed up for 39 million or less.
He came back in and he signed up for the same as what they were paying before, almost $500 million. Now, that's a lot of money, but it's nothing compared to the trillions of dollars that they waste. But that's the way it is. They know they can sign up for less. They don't even care. It's like they don't want to have the conversation. And you're talking about a $450 million difference.
But they came up right in the first week. He said, "No, no, we're going right back in." Okay, I can understand that. But you go in for 39 million. they could make a deal for 39 million. They signed up for $472 million and I withdrew from the anti-American UN Human Rights Council, which is totally disgusting.
In three months, my administration has brought home 46 American hostages and citizens detained abroad. We paid nothing. We don't pay. We don't pay. You know, if you pay, those kidnappings go way up. We don't pay. Every time Biden brought people back, he'd pay six billion. Six billion. Six billion. Three times they brought back three hostages.
Oh, how is it? Well, I think it's a fair deal. What do we pay? $6 billion. Wait a minute. For three people? Six billion. Six billion dollars. It's not right. I mean, it's just not right. They have no idea. Honestly, grossly incompetent, stupid people. More than Biden brought home in four years. We brought more back in just a matter of weeks than Biden brought home in years.
And he paid a fortune and we paid nothing. We got Mexico to turn over 29 of the biggest cartel leaders in their country. And we're charging Mexico and Canada and China big tariffs because of the fact that they've allowed fentinol to come in and poison our country. They're paying a lot of money for that.
And because of that, you'll watch, it's going to stop. It's already slowing down. Within six weeks, we also apprehended the terrorists responsible for the attack that killed 13 American service members known as Abby Gate. I got to know them. I got to know those families very well. They're devastated during the disastrous withdrawal from Afghanistan and brought him home.
I mean, we brought uh this guy home to America. We got the guy that did it. We got him. They were looking for years, but we got him. It took us to get him. We got him on the in the first month. Brought him home to face Justin. And it was that gross incompetence that probably led Putin to go in and attack Ukraine because they were never going to that was never going to happen.
If I were president, the Ukraine Russia war would have never ever happened. Not even a little chance. We have ended the weaponization of law enforcement and fired Joe Biden's handpicked cro these are proime US attorneys except if it's a political person like me. You know, I was under investigation more than the late great Alons Capone.
Al Capone was the greatest gangster of them all. If he had dinner with you and if he didn't like you, you were dead. You were a dead person. You'd be under a foundation somewhere in a nice big building or sports center growing up. And I spent far more time under investigation than Alons Capone. How about that? You like that? I didn't like that. I didn't like it.
We removed senior FBI officials who were corrupt and misdirected the resources they sent to SWAT teams after grandmothers and J6 hostages. What they did to those J6 hostages and they did nothing to the people that took over Portland and took over Seattle. They literally took over a big portion of Seattle or in Minnesota, Minneapolis, you remember that disaster where they said, "No, this is a peaceful rally.
" the CNN lunatic anchor, the guy has about the personality of an ant. This is not a man meant for television. He said, he said, "No, the rally is quite peaceful." Then he got hit with a brick or something. And over his shoulder, the entire skyline of Minneapolis was burning. You remember that one? The entire skyline was burning. And I have to be careful because that gentleman right there, one of the greatest purchases of advertising in the history of the world, Mike Lindell.
There has never been a better purchaser. He comes from Minnesota. No, congratulate. He's the greatest purchaser of ads in history. If he would have bought my ads, I could have had 10 times more ads on. There's never been Is there any station that doesn't have a pillow ad in? But he's great and he's doing great and he's got a beautiful new wife and all that stuff and I'm proud.
Look at him holding hands. They're still holding hands. I'm very proud of That's nice. Usually by this time usually in a lot of people I know Mike by this time it's over. It's over. Look at you holding hands. I love that. I saw that. I pardoned hundreds of political prisoners who had been grossly mistreated.
We created a brand new DOJ task force on anti-Christian bias. It's a big problem. I stripped the security clearances of the disgraced intelligence agents who lied about Hunter Biden's laptop from hell. Remember the laptop from hell? Remember the laptop from hell? When you had the 51 agents, they said, "Oh, Russia did it.
Russia Russia did it. Russia did everything. Russia did it. And it was all like horrible, disgusting stuff. You hadn't seen the worst of it, but it truly is the laptop. By the way, a very brilliant reporter for the New York Post wrote a book called The Laptop from Hell. You ought to read that book. It is really, it tells you the facts.
Okay? It tells you the facts. Mivine, the great the great Mr. Vine, she wrote an amazing book actually, The Laptop from Hell. We also terminated the clearances of the Biden crime family and Joe Biden himself because he's corrupt. And I banned all government censorship and restored free speech in America. We have free speech.
We didn't have free speech. I ended all of the lawless so-called diversity, equity, and inclusion all across the entire federal government and the private sector. And I made it the official policy of the United States government that there are only two genders, male and female. And the really easy one, this was the easiest one I had.
I banned men from competing in women's sports. You know, they always say that's an 8020 issue. No, I think about a 973 issue. I also proudly ban the use of puberty blockers and other chemical and surgical. Right. All these mutilations of our minor youth, I banned it all. I signed executive orders to abolish critical race theory and transgender insanity from our schools and from our military.
We fired the woke boards of visitors at our militarymies. We have great people running our militarymies now. And I've directed the reinstatement of patriots expelled from our military by the Biden vaccine mandate with full back pay. After years of missed targets, our military suddenly has the best recruiting numbers in 30 years.
Every branch is setting records. Don't think of that. Six months ago, you and I were reading that nobody wanted to join the military. Right now, we've just set a record of recruitment that stopped. We have a waiting list of people that want to go into our military. And we have a waiting list, including for police and firefighters, because our country has spirit again.
We have spirit. Our country has great spirit again. Last month, I signed a historic executive order to begin the process of eliminating the federal department of education and send education back to Michigan. We're going to send it back to our states, right? We're going to send it back to our states to run.
I mean, how the hell bad can we do? We're like in last place. They do badly, you're going to do better. They're going to do great, though. I think they're going to do great. We're s I'm very proud of it. Linda McMahon, by the way, is doing a phenomenal job. And I signed an order making English the official language of the United States of America.
I order the release of all remaining files related to the assassinations of presidents John F. Kennedy, Robert Kennedy, and Martin Luther King Jr. And they're all out there. And I made myself very unpopular in Mexico by renaming the Gulf of Mexico the Gulf of America. And we are restoring the name of a great president, William McKinley, to Mount McKinley in Alaska.
It's a very good president. And you Italians are going to love me because just yesterday, I brought back Columbus Day in America, especially for Italian Americans who were so badly treated by its removal. I also signed an order to require proof of citizenship to vote in American electors. That was easy. And the Democrats fought me in that.
Think of it. Why would they want no voter ID? Because they want to cheat. Why would they want to have no proof of citizenship? We don't want it. We trust everybody. No, they want to cheat. That's all they want to do. Think of that. No voter ID. In Michigan, you must never allow rank choice voting to be here.
Never. We've done this all in 14 weeks. That's one. Remember that 100 days we've done all of the things that I named and a lot more and we're counting and it's going to be get it's going to be better. Wait till you see the results of some of the things that we're doing in the coming weeks and months.
We will pass the largest tax cuts in American history and that will include no tax on tips, no tax on social security, no tax on overtime. It's called the one big beautiful bill and it will be the biggest bill ever passed in our country's history. It will include the biggest tax cuts, regulation cuts, military supremacy, and just about everything else.
We will cut more than $1 trillion in wasteful and unnecessary spending. And in the next fiscal year, it'll all be done. We're going to have something that you won't even believe. We will end inflation, slash prices. We've already ended inflation, raise wages, and give you the greatest economy in the history of the world. That's already happening.
With our tax bill, the average families take-home pay will be at least $5,000 more than it was just a couple of months ago. We will always protect Medicare and Social Security for our great seniors with no cuts. And we will defend Medicaid for those great people that are in need. House Republicans are working to invest more money in Medicaid than we spent today.
The only thing we're going to cut is the corruption and the crooks that take advantage of some of the illegal schemes. So, we want to preserve Medicaid for the most vulnerable for our kids, pregnant women, the poor and disabled Americans. We will fully and permanently secure our border. We will make the largest ever investment in US military and build the Golden Dome Missile Defense Shield that's going to all protect us so we live a long and beautiful life.
It's going to be made in Michigan and it's going to be made right here in the USA. And one hour ago, I just made a speech at Selfridge Air Force Air National Guard Base announcing that we are saving it, keeping it open, including thousands of jobs with a brand new state-of-the-art F15s, which are coming to South.
And we will crush violent crime and give our police the support, protection, resources, and respect they so dearly deserve. I will defend religious liberty and I will defend the right to keep and bear arms. We will celebrate the 250th anniversary of America's founding in 2026. And we will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag.
And one day soon, American astronauts will plant the flag on the planet Mars. That's going to happen very soon. Every single day of my administration will continue to live by the motto promises made. And you've seen it before. Promises kept. From Marquette to Midland, from Meno to Sageno, and from Lancing to right here in Mcome County, we stand on the shoulders of red-blooded Michigan patriots.
What great people. I love you, Michigan. who laid the railroads, worked the factories, tilled the field, forged the steel, fought the battles, and won the victories that built the Motor City and made this state into the pride of the America Midwest. And you know what? We're going to make it better than it ever was. It's already happening.
You see what's happening? Michigan is the state that gave us the assembly line, Mottown, Ford, General Motors, Chrysler, and put the world behind the wheel of an automobile. And under our leadership, we are making it greater every single day. And the automobile business in Michigan will soon, and it's going to happen really soon. It's already happening.
They're signing left and right because of my taxation and tariff policies which are policies of common sense and genius be bigger and stronger and better than ever before. It's going to get better than ever before. And it won't even be close. Companies will be pouring back into Michigan. It was hardworking patriots like you who built this country.
And on November 5th, 2024, it was hardworking patriots like you who saved our country. So, thanks to your help, your love, and your support, after 100 days back in the White House, America is a free, proud, and sovereign nation once more. And our magnificent destiny is closer than ever before. It's closer than ever before.
You have no idea how close it is. Our golden age has only just begun. We are one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. We will never give in. We will never give up. We will never back down. We will never ever surrender. We will fight, fight, fight. And we will win, win, win. Together, we will make America powerful again.
We will make America wealthy again. We will make America healthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. and we will make America great again. I love you, Michigan. I love you. Have a good time.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aGdfkbROxjs&t=95s
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
[Music] Hello and welcome to Market Domination. I'm Julie Hyman. That's Josh Lipton. Live from our New York City headquarters, we are giving you the ultimate investing playbook to help tune out the noise and make the right moves for your money. And here's Headline Blitz, getting you up to speed one hour before the closing bell rings on Wall Street.
Breaking news. Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik confirming that tariff relief is coming to the auto sector. Lutnik saying that tariff relief will be available to all USbuilt vehicles and cars that are finished in the US and will not be imposed to tariffs. Meanwhile, tariffs will apply to foreign car makers building cars in the US.
The manufacturers will get a 15% offset for the value of those vehicles against parts imports. According to Secretary Lutnik, tariff relief will be phased in over 3 years to allow automakers to produce supply chains in the US. This is a hostile and political act by Amazon. So this is another reason why Americans should buy American.
It's another reason why we are onshoring critical supply chains here at home to shore up our own critical supply chain uh and boost our own manufacturing here. If you look at uh what consumers are telling us about jobs availability, they expect that uh it to be really really poor.
So that index is actually uh at its highest level uh since the great recession. The index that tells us that consumers expect fewer jobs available. We got 1 hour to go until the market close. We're taking a look at the major averages here which are pressing higher. We had some earnings coming out today that seems to be helping drive the narrative in addition to that tariff relief.
Although as we're going to get into in a moment it's very complicated but in any case the Dow is higher today about by about 300 almost 350 points about 9/10en of 1% the S&P up about 2/3 and the NASDAQ up about the same today. We did have some economic data today and relative to expectations, consumer confidence was weak, labor data was weak, but we are grinding higher in today's trade.
I I do wonder whether the White House is playing a role here because you did see Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik. He gave an an interview this afternoon, Julie, um where he said there was or suggested there was a a major trade deal close to being announced. Which country? I don't know. What's the timeline? I don't know. But this is but this is to to the point this is why some folks are like I'm not gonna I can't short a market where I have a headline pop and we and we grind. Yeah.
I mean and the president also spoke to reporters this afternoon. He said oh we're talking to India. We're talking to this one. We're talking to that one. Yeah. But there's nothing on the dotted line as of yet. But you know as you say people are just sort of waiting to see when all of that is coming.
If you look at what's moving here within the market under the hood, of course, we've got a lot of MAG 7 earnings that are still on deck here um ahead of some of the the numbers that we're going to get this week. You've got Alphabet, Amazon, Tesla trading lower. Amazon we're going to get into a little bit later.
Those shares down about a tenth of 1%. But not big moves here today. It feels like a more muted session at least when you're looking at the NASDAQ 100. When you're looking at sectors on the move here today, materials is the best performing group. Energy down the most. And just let's look at the Dow real quick because we did have um some earnings uh numbers from the Dow just equal weighting it so we can get a look at what's moving.
Um you've got Honeywell for example that's higher. We're going to talk more about that a little bit later in the show. So we are seeing some earnings related moves that are happening in in today's market as well. Yeah. And to your point, maybe you know relatively muted makes sense just given as you're pointing out, Julie, still the wave of news you have coming this week.
Big earnings on on deck, big economic data still on deck. Yeah, definitely. Well, the auto industry finally receiving some clarity, some clarity from the White House. For more, we're bringing in Yahoo Finance senior autos reporter Prosman and Brass. Um, what what are these new rules that we're just learning about here? You know, we heard about some of these early this morning when some of this news was coming out with the journal report about how we're going to get possibly two stages of relief here for the automakers. They were desperately
seeking some relief here from, you know, 25% uh import tariffs, right? So, basically, uh the first part is the the the White House doesn't want to de want they want to destack some of these tariffs, right? They don't want to have automakers pay 25% import tariffs as well as um your your steel and aluminum tariffs or China fentinel tariffs.
What they're going to do is they're going to say you're going to pay one of one of these, the highest one. That'll be your only tariff there. You're not going to stack them on top of each other. Uh which is something that will be will be helpful for the automakers that are importing. But also, more importantly, there's going to be a auto parts exemption here.
So, they're kind of they're going to stage this in uh in two two ways. So, basically, in the first year, uh you'll get up to an amount of 3.75% of the value of the car uh based on the imported parts you're bringing in. You'll get that as as an offset. uh the formula kind of works out in such a way that they figured out that 15% of the parts coming in for cars made in the US, they just can't be replaced or onshored here.
So, they're going to give you that money back. It's a complicated equation. Basically, it's 15% times 25% tariff gets you to 3.75%. That's going to be backed out of the price of the car is going to give you an offset for tariffs. I know it's really complicated, but that's just sort of where we are right now.
And that's going to give uh American companies some time to onshore some of the stuff. In two years, that'll that'll go away. And that's sort of where we are with the tariffs. A little bit of relief here, but still very complicated and still nowhere near where we were before the whole tariff situation started. So PR, you know, bottom line, if I was a CEO, I was running one of these auto companies, how do you think those CEOs are feeling today? I mean, is it is it a a big sigh of relief? Is it more of well, you know, I'll I'll take any relief I can get. What do you think
they're thinking? That's a good I think it's a mixture of I'll take whatever relief I can get and also and also some genuine relief. I mean Ford CO Jim Farley said this this is good news. So did Stalantis's chairman Johan Elkman and Mary Barrow as well talking about how this is good for the auto industry and they want to work with the Trump administration to to keep pushing forward here to make sure that you know they're they're making cars in the US but also in a in a manner that isn't going to uh punish the automakers.
So I think that's it's it's a positive step right now that we're going to see here uh especially with the auto parts exemptions. So yes, it is positive, but still I don't think they got all they wanted, but it's enough that they can actually at least offset some of those those parts that are coming that they can't replicate here in the US.
All right, PR, thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. For more on the latest market moves, let's welcome in now Gari Chowdery Black Rockck chief investment and portfolio strategist Americas. Gari, it is great to see you as always. uh you know obviously a lot of uncertainty and uneasiness um with the tariffs and trade tensions the policy uncertainty today of course the headlines all about Trump giving give these auto companies some relief gorgi um you think the volatility I know is going to remain relatively elevated from here against that backdrop
how are you telling clients they should be thinking about committing their capital good afternoon and thank you for having me it's great to be on and to your point obviously I was listening to your show earlier and there is a little bit of relief in the markets both in the stocks as well as in the bond markets and that's welcome. We want to see that.
But I think if we take a a little bit of a step back and you know, we wrote about this in our outlook that we just published yesterday, our spring investment directions, where we just say that I think it's hard to believe that we're going to go back to sort of that, you know, call it 2020 to 2024 period where we had relatively muted volatility.
And right now with the headline risk still remaining somewhat high, we think more and more investors should think about adding some ways to protect against higher volatility and adding more diversifiers in their portfolio. So that's the thesis of how you should be adding ways in which you can reduce the volatility, reduce the beta and add diversifiers in your portfolio for the for the next couple of months. So Gari, let's talk it's Julie.
It's good to see you. Let's talk first then about that volatility muting piece of it. How does one do that in this environment? So you know one of the things that we were uh noticing was many clients were asking us if this is the period that they should be moving back to cash and we've obviously seen historic inflows into money market funds and we've obvious obviously seen cash on the sidelines call it 8 trillion or so.
Instead of that move, what we're telling investors, those investors that are a little bit more afraid about some of the price action that they saw between sort of earlier this year to call it April 12th or so, what we're telling them to do is take a more defensive stance and add to solutions like US minimum volatility, which again it allows you to stay invested in the markets, but just reduces the volatility experience, reduces the beta of your portfolio just a little bit.
So on the days that the market is down, you just lose a little bit less. And of course, you still stay in the markets. You're still invested in US equities. So that's one way. So consider minimum volatility strategies. But then secondly, one of the other questions that have been coming up a lot is the behavior of bonds, especially here, I'm talking about long bonds in particular, that didn't quite give you the balance that you were hoping for.
um especially in the volatility in early April. So this is where we're telling investors number one continue to move your focus in fixed income to the front end of the market to the belly of the market and only on income generating securities in the fixed income market. Add in some inflation protection, some shorterdated inflation protected bond securities and then think about other diversifiers like in for example gold that has done very well in this sort of geopolitically uh fraud environment and also other alternatives like liquid oils
and market neutral strategies that don't have as much beta. Garnia, I'm curious when you're meeting with those those very smart black rockck clients, what's top of mind for them right now? What are the big questions you seem to get the most? Yeah, so the big thing that's coming up is US versus the rest of the world as you can imagine and again listening to your shows I know you've been talking about that a lot.
um sort of you know what what to make of this international outperformance especially since you know we look at our own advisor portfolios and the data that we gather where we find that uh investors and advisers are quite underweight international exposures and you know rightfully so over the last decade or more they've done very well having that underweight and having auh overweight to the US so one question that is coming up more and more is is this a change.
Should we reallocate back to international markets? And we are addressing exactly that question in our outlook by talking about ways in which you should be diversified in the international markets. We certainly think you should have exposure to international markets. And then the second question that's coming up quite a bit is uh is around sort of you know the diversification that we talked about.
You know, if we're slowing down in growth, are we going into a recession? we don't quite know yet, but we know we're going to slow down in growth and maybe pick up a little bit in inflation. Um, so in that environment, how should we think about portfolio hedging? So, you've talked a little bit about that volatility muting.
You've talked a little bit about hedging through that uh lens international, but I know that technology is also still a part of the strategy here because I guess on the one hand, you want to minimize risk, but on the other hand, you still want to maximize returns. So is is that is that the the the sort of thinking behind still turning to technology, Julie? Absolutely.
And I was about to get to that that while for some investors the volatility has been a little bit alarming and they have asked us about sort of looking to reduce volatility whether that be through minimum volatility strategies or option overlays. Other investors are actually using this as an opportunity to add back to risk.
And this is where we're telling them what we think is the most exciting opportunity here is to continue to add to those mega trends that we think will be with us for quarters and years. And AI is obviously top of mind and obviously big week with earnings and learning more about the capex plans of some of these large AI hyperscalers. But recognizing that this theme is going to stay with us for a long time and now we're getting a chance to get back into these themes um at somewhat of a sort of discounted level to where we were at the peak. Gary, final question. You know, as
investors look for opportunities right now overseas, there's been plenty of strategists who've come on this show and banging the table for Europe. Um you also point out though Latin America. Why Latin America? Why emphasize there? Absolutely. And we do think that there are pockets of Europe that absolutely make sense and European financials and we're talking about European value a little bit that we think completely make sense and you know going active with international but the other often overlooked area to your point is LATAM
which isn't a region that many investors have specific allocations to and in this rewiring of sort of uh you know what's happening right now with geopolitical fragmentations and some of the rewiring of supply chains that's going to happen of course as a result of tariffs. We think that their pockets of Latin America and Brazil and Mexico come to mind which we think might be the beneficiaries and could also benefit from having some cheaper valuations compared to the US and parts of the European market. So, you know, think
about some of the exposures especially as I said in Mexico and Brazil as another way of thinking about diversification in your portfolio. Gardi, good to see you. Thanks so much for joining us. Thank you for having me. We're just getting started here on Market Domination. Coming up, Amazon denying reports that it will display the impact of tariffs next to the price of products on its e-commerce site.
That, by the way, had drawn the attention of the Trump administration today. More on that and a look ahead to Amazon's earnings report when market domination returns. [Music] The White House calling out Amazon this morning on reports that the company is going to post the price increases from tariffs on its products.
This is a hostile and political act by Amazon. So, this is another reason why Americans should buy American. It's another reason why we are onshoring critical supply chains here at home to shore up our own critical supply chain uh and boost our own manufacturing. Amazon then quickly denying the report, saying in a statement that it was never consideration for the main Amazon site.
For more, we're bringing in now Yahoo Finance's tech editor, the one and only Dan Hely. Yes, this is an interesting report, right? We already have Trump coming out uh saying that uh he spoke to Jeff Bezos this morning. Uh let's see, he said uh Jeff Bezos is very nice, terrific. He solved the problem very quickly. He did the right thing.
Good guy. Um that's uh that's from Trump. Uh Amazon obviously saying that this was not something they wanted to do on the the regular site. This uh uh we had uh CNN White House reporter uh Alana uh Trienne, I hope I said that right. Uh basically saying that Trump had called Bezos after learning about uh this idea that they may put the tariff pricing on the e-commerce site.
Again, something that Amazon said they they never proposed. But you know, uh this kind of just speaks to the the precarious situation that companies are in now. have to navigate uh dealing with Trump himself, but also provide information to consumers as to what exactly they're paying. And look, you know, not for nothing, but I watch a lot of Mets games, so I watch a lot of bar rescue.
All right, let's just throw it out there for John Taffer. Uh I constantly hear uh auto commercials with no tariff pricing, right? So, you know, I mean, that's not exactly new that you're hearing stuff like this. And frankly, as a consumer myself, I want to know what I'm paying for.
If I'm paying taxes, tell me that I'm paying taxes. If I have to pay for tariffs, then tell me what I'm paying for in tariffs. I don't want to just know, you know, okay, well, the price just went up. I don't know why exactly, you know. So, I don't really see how this is a a negative for consumers. It'll give them a heads up. And, you know, if the idea is to buy American, well, then they'll see the difference in pricing between what's tariffed uh from overseas and what's not.
Amazon said they're not actually doing it or they were considering doing it on one part of their business. Yeah, it was supposed to be for uh Amazon Hall. It's basically uh their their super lowcost uh sales site. So, not on the the regular side, but you know, I think for for from a consumer practical perspective, it would have made sense to move forward with something like that.
At least, you know, as far as I know what I'm spending on, right? And she and Timu, for example, are doing it ahead of the dimminimous tax uh exemption going away. So, um, switching gears, but staying in tech. Um, let's talk about Meta because it is working on a new AI app. Yes. What do we know about is it is it actually out yet? And what does it entail? The site's out.
Uh, we had taken a screenshot of it earlier and it doesn't look like it's it was working at the time. It looked uh there was still uh some lipsum uh stuff in there. Uh, not really giving you uh exactly what what you would want out of the the the site yet, but uh it's going to be Meta's AI app.
And essentially they're they're almost decoupling it from the overall Instagram, Facebook, uh WhatsApp apps. Uh not that it won't still be there, but this is just a secondary app. So say you want to use it as a you know maybe like perplexity, excuse me, or OpenAI alternative, you have that now instead of having to open Instagram and then get lost in you know a line of you know different uh video or photo feeds.
You can actually get done what you want to get done. And I think, you know, it would it to me it makes more sense because when when Meta talks about, okay, we have X number of people using Meta AI, are they really using Meta AI or are they just searching for something on Instagram or, you know, uh, right? They're not choosing Meta AI, right? It's just there, right? So, like what where's that, you know, what is that number? And I think that it would be a better accounting of who's actually using Meta AI by going and counting the app itself. So obviously that you know
doesn't make it look as cool because meta AI getting the big numbers when you start you know you're trying to look for for instance John Taffer and his I swear to God I've just been watching a lot of our rescue. I guess I I'm I got some googling to do. It's okay. You don't have to tell me right now.
But it's it's uh it's it's interesting and I I think this is you know obviously if you've been looking at again I've been watching a lot of TV. If you watch any of the ads, it's just, you know, meta uh people talking meta through the the meta uh Rayban glasses or through their phone, asking about different, you know, things that you would ask perhaps Google or or OpenAI about.
So, it's clear that that's the direction that they want to go with this. And I think having it on its own app will make people want to use that in that way more. I think Julie was just searching for Bar Rescue, by the way. It was. I Okay, all caught up. Okay. Thanks, Dan. No problem. Appreciate it. Well, Amazon reporting first quarter earnings after the markets close on Thursday.
But our next guest says there will be less focus on the first quarter results and more on the longer term outlook given those headwinds from tariffs. Remember, we're bringing in Arun Sundurum, senior equity research analyst at CFR research. Arun, it's good to see you. Before we get to the big earnings picture, I do want to ask you about some of those headlines today.
the reporting that we were going to see the sort of tariff breakdown in some of uh Amazon's pricing, then Amazon saying no, we're not necessarily going to do that, but the White House pushing back. I mean, what do you think is sort of the right way for Amazon and some other companies to to sort of approach this? Yeah. Yeah.
Certainly an interesting day for Amazon. I think I think in my in my view, I think the whole thing kind of got blown out of proportion um because of that that unconfirmed report that came out. Then the White House came out with their statement and Amazon had to quickly respond back to it. Um, you know, I I don't think Amazon was ever considering breaking out tariff charges on their main e-commerce website.
Um, you know, they did say they did say that too and they they said that these tariff search charges were mainly for Amazon Hall, which is essentially their Teimu Sheen copycat website. But, um, yeah, I I don't think big box retailers in general will will break out tariff search charges.
One is because it's just a very complex calculation and it could be really messy. Um uh I think it's probably gonna have more there probably more questions than answers if they did break out tariffs or charges like why is this product uh have a higher tax versus this one. Um you know right now retailers are also trying to figure out who's going to you know absorb some of these tariff costs.
You know some of it is going to no doubt be passed on to the consumer but some of it's going to be absorbed by retailers. Some of it's going to be absorbed by suppliers. So how is that going to be calculated into the tariff search charge calculation? So, you know, I think it's I think it wouldn't be too messy.
It would probably hurt sales to be honest if they did break it out, too. So, um I don't think you'll see big box retailers um you know, take that route. So, I'm just curious because it is, you know, it is the big question for Amazon or certainly a big question. You know, h how exactly they're going to navigate this China tariff exposure.
I I did see the team over at Roth, they're telling their clients more than 30% of products sold on Amazon could be coming from China. And so I'm I'm just curious what will be Amazon's game plan and what is going to be Amazon's strategy to navigate that? Yeah. Yeah. I mean no doubt they have a significant portion of Chinese sellers, Chinese third party sellers.
They don't they never disclose it um the exact percentage but it is known it is expected to be a sizable portion. Um the good thing is that I think you know ever since the first trade war back in 2018 2019 uh they did move significant portion of their of their sourcing or supplier base out of China into other other Asian markets like you know Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand, India places places like that.
Uh I think that's going to be beneficial. two um you know over the last 5 years or so Amazon's also um uh diversified their business in terms of um not just selling discretionary bigger ticket items but also more you know daily use consumables you know things like deodorant toothpaste paper towels things like that those products typically face less tariff risk as well so that's going to help them I think as well uh and third you know Amazon has a very large obviously a very large business a very a lot of many different suppliers they
also 60% of their e-commerce business is also third party sellers and only 40% is their own um first party sales. So in in theory, you know, that 60% which which is the third party business, they Amazon generates a fee uh based off of fulfillment services and things like that.
So in theory, higher prices from third party sales could generate higher uh fee revenue for Amazon. So you know, it's I think there's a lot of, you know, pros and cons you have to weigh out before you determine whether you know tariffs are going to be fully bad or fully good. So it's a little bit it's a little bit complicated, I think, is the best way to say it. Yeah.
I mean I guess unless from the third party seller front unless people buy less stuff because it's more expensive. I mean and that goes for AWS as well. I want to ask about the implications there because you know if Amazon's clients if it's big enterprise clients are feeling the pinch from tariffs are they then going to not spend as much on AWS? Is that portion of their spending you know is that vulnerable in this case? Yeah.
So yeah, the way we kind of framed it is that you tariffs probably have a a bigger risk to Amazon's e-commerce business, but a broader macro slowdown because of tariffs have could have a negative implic imp implications to Amazon's AWS business as well as its advertising business. Um, so that's something that we're going to, you know, we'll we'll likely look to hear on the on the earnings call in a few days.
But yeah, we'll have to see. And I think right now the the commentary that we've been hearing from from Andy Jasse and even Amazon's shareholder letter that they released a few weeks ago sounded pretty upbeat in AWS. So I think expectations are high for AWS this year. Uh Amazon's also investing they're expected to invest over hundred billion dollars in capex this year.
Most of that is going to be in in AWS and and AI investments. Um so we are pretty upbeat for AWS. But because of that capex capex investments, um there's a chance that AWS margins this year could be softer than than the previous year. And I don't know if that's fully baked into to into the consensus estimates right now. So that could be, you know, an area where we could see downside risk is that AWS margin line.
Finally, what about the advertising business? Do you think uh think Amazon's able to gain advertising share? Yeah, I mean because I mean if during a during an economic slowdown, you know, you you want to allocate more of your advertising dollars to where people buy, you know, goods. And right now there's I think only three retailers gain g getting the most amount of market share.
It's it's Amazon, it's Walmart, and it's Costco. And so if you're an advertiser, you probably want to be advertising in one of those uh three three companies. Uh but at the same time is that many of Amazon's advertisers are thirdparty sellers. So if a lot of these Chinese third-party sellers are feeling uh the brunt of tariffs uh then they could be advertising less and that could negatively impact Amazon's advertising business.
But at the same time also is that Amazon's also um uh just getting into Prime Video ads. They they launched Prime Video ads last year. They're ramping it up this year. Uh and that's a you know increment that can be an incremental uh uh revenue stream for for Amazon. So again there's like a there's there's there's pluses and minuses in their in their ad business as well.
And advertising is probably the most profitable business at Amazon, even more profitable than AWS. Um, and and over the last few years, that's been the fastest growing business for Amazon is is advertising. Um, so hopefully that continues to grow at a at a faster pace because that would only help overall overall margins at Amazon.
Arun, as you say, it's complicated, a lot of moving parts to watch. Thank you so much for helping set us up for it. Thank you. [Music] Now, time for some of today's trending tickers. Checking in on shares of Hims and Hers Health, Honeywell, and the Sherwin Williams company. Um, let's start with Hims and Hers.
Soaring today after Novu Nordisk announced a partnership with Hims and other teleaalth platforms to offer patients access to the blockbuster weight loss drug, Wgoi, this is really interesting. Hims and Hers has been really volatile because remember when the government declared a shortage of these drugs, Hims and Hers and the other privately held tele health platforms like Grow were be were able to sell compounded versions of those drugs and were able to um gain some steam.
Then the government said no, there's not a shortage anymore and it was declared they probably couldn't sell this stuff anymore and now this comes in and sort of replaces that. Yeah. Novo exec telling Bloomberg it looks like in an interview we have an opportunity to really meaningfully meet patients where they are.
They say they go on to say that Novo and its partners share a joint view of making real WGO more accessible and affordable. And this all coming by the way as Lily working with teleahalth names to distribute zbound as well. Right. Y exactly. All right. Scott shares Honeywell. They're higher today after the company topped earnings expectations the first quarter lifted its fullear outlook.
So um the fullear guidance for earnings per share. So now looking for between 1020 and 1050 it looks like. Uh they did suggest some caution too though. CEO saying though we we have not seen it in our results. We recognize we face an uncertain global demand environment for the remainder of 2025.
Guidance they say does incorporate net expected impact of current tariffs mitigation actions and global demand uncertainty. Yeah. Like like so many companies Honeywell coming out and saying what it's trying to do to deal with the tariffs. Right. Um, and you know that among those things is sort of moving around supply chain, cutting costs, etc.
Um, Andrew Kaplowitz over at city, his commentary on this stuck out to me. He said, you know, this outlook for 2025 coming despite tariff headwinds and macro uncertainty. He says, we think highlight good visibility and resilience within Honeywell's portfolio. Remember, taking a step back, Honeywell's in the process of dividing itself into three here.
automation, aerospace, and advanced materials are going to be the three parts of that that it's not aiming for that until the second half of next year, but nonetheless something to just keep an eye on. And Elliot taking that stake last year urged the breakup. Exactly. All right. Finally, the Sherwin Williams company, it's getting a boost today after the maker paints and other industrial products exceeded profit estimates and issued stronger than expected guidance for the full year.
So, they report they beat expectations of the first quarter. Their guidance for the full year 2025 looks like remains unchanged. Consolidated net sales expected to be up a low singledigit percentage compared to full year 2024. Julie, yeah, here too, I saw um one analyst comment, Greg Melich over at Everquorei, uh saying the impact from tariffs is limited because most of Sherwin Williams revenues are in the US and it doesn't source raw materials from outside where it's actually making the paint. So, he said they're more immune.
You know what I realized today? I this snuck by me. Sherwin Williams is in the Dow now. Did you know that? I did not know. I didn't know either until we were looking at the heat map earlier and there was Sherwin Williams. It it came in at the same time as Invidia. I didn't even Every day you learn something.
Yeah, it's really true. Coming up, another big day of earnings means another round of companies cutting fullyear guidance. We'll get you up to speed with the latest on the other side. Stick around. Much more market domination still to come. We continue to be on tariff watch of course this earning season.
So let's round up some of the latest that we're seeing and the commentary that we're getting. Multiple companies cutting fullear guidance including Pepsi, Proctor and Gamble and FedEx. And now Craft Hind becoming one of the latest companies lowering its fullear outlook in light of a weakening consumer and tariff costs.
The company projecting sales will decline one and a half to three and a half%. and the CEO saying that he's quote acutely aware of the building pressures across food. Let's get to JetBlue giving an update on guidance today as well. The company following its fellow airlines and pulling fullear guidance due to macroeconomic uncertainty.
The JetBlue president saying quote, "We expect softened demand for off- peak travel to continue into the second quarter where the booking curve is more exposed to macro uncertainty and deteriorating consumer confidence." And shifting gears to autos, General Motors also reported earnings this morning. It also delayed its earnings call until Thursday.
The company citing recent reports regarding updates to trade policy as the reason for the delay. And of course, we told you at the top of the show, we got some color around what those updates were. Well, as several companies warn of the impacts from macroeconomic uncertainties and trade policy fog, we're dissecting what this all means for consensus earnings with Raymond James, chief investment officer, Larry Adam, who's here with us in the studio, which is lovely to see you in person.
So, so Larry, um, earnings estimates have not come down that much. Even though, and to be fair, these companies, some of them are cutting, but many of them are just saying we can't give a forecast. Are those numbers going to have to come down? And by how much? I think they're going to have to come back. I think we're finally going to start to see the economic impact from these tariffs.
And our forecast is that the current consensus is at 264. We think those earnings go down to around 250 to 255 by the end of this year. And that's for the S&P 500 per share. Yes. How much confidence, Larry, do you have in that number? Because some strategies have said, "Listen, I I can give you a number, but I don't have a ton of confidence in the E right now.
" I mean, I have a lot of confidence because we've done a lot of work on this. We do it by sector. Yeah. Right. Which is very important. And then we actually do it by company because we look at how much of that exposure, how much of their costs are coming from the US versus overseas. How much of their sales are in the US versus overseas.
So, we try and put as much of a fine point as we can on that. But, it is a very big challenge out there. Well, and that said, you're looking at all of that exposure at a moment in time, right? So, if tariffs on China are not are no longer 145% for example, if other tariffs change, then how much would that I mean would that change commensurately or are you sort of thinking it's not going to be solved? So, we actually have an estimate and we think if you look at it right now, the current effective trade weighted tariff is about 22 and a.5%. We ultimately
think that that comes down to 15% by the end of this year, which by the way is significant because it actually started at two and a half% this year. But I think there's two things that are going to hamper earnings. Number one, it is the cost pressure. So margins are going to come in which will hurt earnings.
But then you also have the actual reduction in economic growth. So that's what hurts some sectors more so than others. And you know, look, we look at all 11 sectors. They're not all equal, right? Financials are not going to be hit as much because of tariffs. They're going to be hit more because of the economic slowdown.
Consumer discretionary that's going to be hit by both factors. Number one, the cost going higher and then number two, the slowdown in the economy. Larry, how would you characterize valuation broadly for the market right now? Would you say it's a bit stretched? Do you tell clients, well, after the draw down, we're we're maybe a bit fairly valued.
How do you describe it? So, I would say fairly valued because if you look at our target for the end of this year for the S&P 500, we're at 5,800. Now again, that's still eight months from now, but I would tell you we're a little bit more cautious here in the near term because I do think you're going to see those earnings move lower.
I do think that you could see the potential for what I call transitory uh inflation. And I mean transitory, but the fact that we see an uptick, I think that's going to unnerve the markets a bit. So I think you could see a sell-off because of that. And you could see a small modest uptick in uh interest rates because there is going to be a lot of debt that's going to have to be issued and that could weigh on the markets as well.
So 5,800 is where we ultimately see the market going by the end of this year. Um so you talked about some of the sectors and your sector by sector work here. Some of them getting the double whammy, some just getting one. Are there any groups that are getting none or getting less? No, all 11 sectors have had a downward anywhere from 3% to more than 10% reduction from where we had them at the beginning of the year.
So it's broad-based. Where Larry is the Fed in all this? I mean Jay Powella has signaled listen monetary policy is on hold. What does that mean for the market? So if we narrowly avert a recession and right now it's a toss up 50% chance we could have a recession. But one of the reasons why we think we could narrowly avert a recession is if the Fed does start to cut rates.
We think they cut rates three times this year starting as early as June or July. And the reason I think they'll be able to actually cut rates is because they will have that laser focus on the economy. I think inflation is going to be transitory. And I know a lot of people don't like to use that transitory word anymore, but this is totally different than 2022, right? I mean, you had an economy that was soaring coming out of the pandemic. This one's slowing.
You had energy prices at $100 per barrel. Now we're at 60. And back then, coming out of the pandemic, you had excess savings, so people were willing to pay almost anything to go on vacation, buy a car. Today, totally different consumer out there, very frugal, pushing back on price increases. So, I think that inflation will be transitory and it will come back down because companies won't be able to raise prices to make up for all of it.
Um, finally, Magman. Yes, that's your your version of your flavor of Mag 7. Um, what does that mean and why should people maybe be looking at that area right now? So, MagMan is the largest uh mega cap tech stocks minus Tesla because we think that's more of a car company, but that is one of my favorite areas in the market.
Number one, I think there's a big disconnect out there when it comes to what's happened in their performance. If you look at MagMAN, they're down about 13% year-to date. Their earnings revisions have actually gone higher so far this year by about 0.2%. The rest of the market's down 3%. Their earnings have been revised down 4%.
So, big difference there. And then when I look at valuations, believe it or not, those large cap tech stocks are at the cheapest valuations versus the S&P since 2017. That's a long time. I think that's an opportunity. And when I look at what they're doing with their cash, they're increasing their buybacks, it's up 27%.
I think that I know you had the previous uh speaker on. I think that when you look at the spending, the capex, I still think it's going to be relatively strong between those four hyperscalers he's talking about, you're talking about over $300 billion this year. I think that's pretty robust spending.
So I think that's going to continue. And the last thing I'd say is that as opposed to where it was a year ago where everybody loved big cap tech, now it's got the largest underweight in institutional portfolios since 2022. So from a contrarian perspective, I think you could see those those stocks do well over the coming, you know, quarters and you got a catchy uh acronym.
So that's that's what you need, Larry. All right, thanks for coming in. Good to see you. Appreciate it. Coming up, we're taking a look at the best ways to be positioned within the software sector in today's investor playbook. Stick around. and much more market domination still to [Music] come.
Earning season is kicking into high gear with several software stocks gearing up to report earnings in the coming weeks. The latest quarterly results are expected to shed light on momentum for the software space as tariff impacts and demand uncertainties hanging overhead. For more insight on future momentum, let's get to McQuary, head of US technology research, Steve Kanig. Steve, it is great to see you.
Um, maybe to start higher higher level, Steve, you know, I think when a lot of investors think about the software sector, they think, okay, this is a more, you know, relatively tariff resistant sector, Steve, but there are still risks. Walk us through what those are. Hi Josh, thanks for having me on. you know the uh software companies in the US um you know most of the midcap and large cap companies have significant exposure to large enterprises that um can make some pretty big purchase decisions and when you have policy
uncertainty like we've had those decisions can get deferred they can get pushed out you know companies are reluctant to make big commitments uh you know in the um you know as far as smaller customers are concerned um they tend to be their their buying habits you know it's smaller number of software seats etc they tend to be more linear with the economy so if the economy uh degrades and we start to see you know recession or a slowdown uh the purchasing by the smaller companies also gets affected so so those are basically
the macro risks um and you're probably going to want to ask me more about it but I don't think we're going to see those risks come home to roost in a big way in Q1. I think there's a lot of momentum there and I think mo most of the major software names in the US have left pretty ample room in their guidance to either raise their guide or not not cut their guide.
Um so that that's kind of the big picture outlook we have here and valuations have certainly come in quite a bit and and are looking pretty attractive on a lot of a lot of names. So that's interesting, Steve. So even with that sort of caution, that unknown in terms of of the outlook, you think there's a good amount of negativity that's already priced into most of these.
I think that it's true, Julie. Um but I also think there's a there's a certain um buying dynamic that you know even a lot of investors may not fully appreciate even institutional investors which is um software companies have a lot of mechanisms to maintain their momentum in the short term e even in the face of deteriorating conditions.
That's that's always been true even in the 20 years that I've been on the sales side covering software. Um, you know, a lot of these sales cycles are very long and the the sales get, you know, pretty close to being concluded and the projects are green lit and they they may actually the decision may have been made in calendar Q4, but the software um gets turned on, you know, the cloud software gets turned on in Q1 and and bookings registers in Q1 and that revenue starts flowing and sometimes it can start flowing, you know, well after the
decisions are So, so that means there's there's kind of a lag time, if you will, uh, in a lot of this, how this decision-m affects revenue. Uh, and I and I think what we already saw from Service Now and SAP were some pretty good Q1 reports, um, that uh, that set the tone for the space.
And I think a lot of other software companies are going to be hesitant to start, you know, sounding economic alarms, you know, and and a lot of them have room to um if not to raise their guidance to not cut their guidance. So I think Q1 will be fine. The question mark's going to be more Q2, Q3. Having said that, so some some questions ahead, Steve, I know there are names in your coverage universe you like. I want to get to some of those.
Why in your you know, you're telling your clients where the opportunities are. Autodesk you say that's an opportunity. How come? Yeah. Well, a couple things going on there. Um, number one, they just settled with the activist investor who was uh fighting with them. Starboard value. Starboard is going to um has has um suggested and Autodesk has accepted two independent directors on its board.
Autodesk has already been focused more so than we've seen in past years on improving their margins. And we think there's significant room to make the business more efficient to continue to improve margins. And I I think you know the uh the Autodesk management will will continue to pursue margin growth as they have been uh but but even perhaps more aggressively and I think one thing that enables them to do so is the fact that this year they are transitioning to a new transaction model where they're transacting directly with customers.
resellers are still there to provide service but Autodesk is going to gain much more visibility into the end buyers. These are um these are construction firms, architects, uh uh design firms that uh now Autodesk will have that visibility that enables them to know the customer better to cross-ell and to sell more efficiently.
So I think that's important for Autodesk. I think the other thing that's going on is they're being successful pushing into providing software for downstream construction activities which is largely a green field market. Uh and Autodesk is one of the one of the pioneers in this marketplace and that's that's all upside we think going forward in terms of their uh adding to their revenue base.
Steve, I want to get your thoughts on another name that you like which is HubSpot. Those shares about down about 12% or so uh thus far this year and they're coming out with their earnings on May 8th. So, do you think that's going to be a catalyst potentially for the name? Yes, I think I think potentially it can be, Julie. Uh, we like HubSpot.
We're outperform rated on HubSpot as well as Autodesk. Um, and with HubSpot, you know, there's a there's a couple reasons we like this stock. One is uh it all comes down to fundamentals, but one is that they're they're growing um you know probably this year in the high teens and we think that's a very sustainable growth rate as they um broaden their their footprint in the various pillars of customer relationship management from marketing to service to sales.
Uh and so that's that kind of growth opportunity presents the the ability to sustain this this uh high teams revenue growth. I also think there's lots of room for margin expansion as this company grows and matures and and benefits from operating leverage. Lastly, we think this year uh their fiscal 25 which ends in December uh that there's uh ample opportunity for revenue outperformance relative to the guidance that's been put out there.
when we look at the numbers that um we think even in a in an environment as long as that we don't you know go into you know some kind of very bad recession I I think there's plenty of room for revenue upside this year Steve appreciate your time and those picks thank you thank you Josh thank you Julio great to be here and while wrapping up today's market domination don't go anywhere we've got you covered with all the action following the closing bell including the latest earnings results from Starbucks Visa Snap and many more stay tuned for Market domination over
time.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=97t1qKwSWTw&t=122s
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
[Music] Millions of Americans were impacted by hurricanes in 2024 in light of the disaster. The IRS extended the tax deadline for some affected taxpayers in Alabama, Georgia, Florida, and the Carolinas to May 1st. If you're one of them and want to make sure everything goes smoothly, we have Andy Phillips, H&R Block, vice president of the Tax Institute. Andy, good to see you here.
Where can tax taxpayers find their extended deadline? Sure. So, first, thank you for having me. And as you mentioned, you know, tax day has passed for the vast majority of Americans, but we had a lot of natural disasters in 2024 and early 2025. For folks impacted by those disasters, they may have an extended deadline.
you reference down in the southeast, we have several states or portions of states that are extended at least until May 1st, so a couple days from now. Uh North Carolina gets a little longer until September. And then we have other areas like California um where you know folks impacted by the uh the fires that occurred um you know not too long ago have until October to file their 2025 or 2024 tax returns.
And so the best place to go to determine if you uh you know if you may have an extended deadline is to go to the IRS website. They have a complete listing or h&rblock.com. We can help you as well. So if you are allowed to file late, what you should what should you be aware of in that instance? Absolutely.
So the first thing is you know don't wait till that last second to do it. Especially if you were impacted by the disaster. Maybe you had a casualty loss, meaning you had some loss to business property or your home or a vehicle that wasn't fully reimbursed by insurance, and you may be able to claim a casualty loss.
In some instances, you may be able to get that money back quicker by filing a prior year amendment to get that money back or to claim that loss. Um, you may also need help reconstructing your records if you lost some of your paperwork. And so it's really important that people don't wait till the last minute to do that, but instead, you know, get ahead of it now.
Understand what benefits may be eligible to me and what else may I need to get together to file my tax return this year? Shifting gears here. If you owed the IRS money this year, what should you do right now to make sure that that doesn't happen again next year? Yeah, absolutely. You know, so one of the things I love to talk about during tax season is don't use that kind of tax, you know, preparation experience as just a look back on last year, but use it as an opportunity to make that plan going forward um to say, I want to get the
best possible outcome next year when I go to file. If you haven't done that, I'm going to give you two ways you can adjust your withholdings or your taxes to get a different outcome next year. If you're an employee, you can update what's called your W4 with your employer. That's what they use to determine how much tax to withheld uh for to withhold from each of your paychecks.
Now, if you're self-employed, you can adjust how much you make in quarterly estimated payments during the year again to account for, hey, I've had life changes or I didn't like my outcome when I filed a few weeks ago and I want to change that for next year. And here at H&R Block, we offer our clients a current uh a courtesy mid-year check to avoid any of those surprises.
So, for instance, the W4, it's kind of like a mini tax return. If you're confused by it, good opportunity to get help because then you have, you know, an outcome that won't be a surprise when you go to file a little less than a year from now. Just lastly, we only got about 30 seconds here.
For those who are trying to figure out which of the deductions they can expect to roll off that they should start to really budget for this year, what are the top ones that could come into into play once you're getting ready for next year's filing? Do you mean by like a change of law? Certainly. Yeah. So, the vast majority of the individual provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, that was that first uh President Trump tax package, those don't expire till the end of 2025.
So, the benefits that you, you know, you may have taken advantage of on your 2024 return. By and large, those are going to be available again this year. We'll have to see what, if anything, Congress passes and if there's anything that impacts 2025. But in general right now, what was available in 2024 should be available in 2025 again.
It will be 2026 when we see those provisions start to expire. Andy, great reminder. Thanks so much for taking the time. Thank you for having
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IfwJ1mr0s44&pp=0gcJCYQJAYcqIYzv
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
God bless the USA. From the lakes of Minnesota to the hills of Tennessee, across the plains of Texas, from sea to shining sea, from Detroit down to Houston and New York to LA, where there's pride in every American heart and it's time we stand and say, that I'm proud to be an America. And I'm proud to be an Americans wearing
this I know I'm free and I won't forget the men who died who gave that right to me and I gladly stand up next to you and defend her still today. God bless you. Wow. Hello. Hello, Michigan. USA. Oh, thank you very much. Hello, Michigan. Hello. We love you, Michigan. We love
you. We just had the biggest victory in Michigan. They said, "Sir, it's going to be hard." Well, we won it twice. We won it twice. We actually won it three times. you want to really know. But I'm thrilled to be back in this beautiful state. I love the state. Got a lot of auto jobs coming. Watch what's happening.
The companies are coming in by the by the tens. You got to see what's happening. They all want to come back to Michigan and build cars again. You know why? Because of our tax and tariff policy. They're coming from all over the world. They're coming up and they're opening up plants and they're talking to us all day and all night.
They want to get here and they're coming in at levels you've never seen before. And I want to thank the auto workers for your support. That was great. But I'm thrilled to be back in this beautiful state with thousands of proud, hardworking American patriots. And we're here tonight in the heartland of our nation to celebrate the most successful first 100 days of any administration in the history of our country.
And that's according to many many people. This is the best they say 100 day start of any president in history. And everyone is saying it. We're just we've just gotten started. You haven't even seen anything yet. It's all just kicking in. And week by week, we're ending illegal immigration. We're taking back our jobs and protecting our great American auto workers and all of our workers.
Frankly, we're protecting all of our workers. We're restoring the rule of law, which was sort of out the window with this crazy guy we had. How the hell did that guy ever become president? Could somebody explain to me? How the hell did that happen? There's my friend Blacks for Trump. I like that guy. He's follows me.
He follows me. We love you. Your whole group has been so supportive over the years. I want to thank you. I want to Everyone thinks I pay you a fortune. I don't know. I don't even know who the hell he is. I just like him. True. Thank you very much. Thank all of the fellas. Thank them all. But we're ending the inflation nightmare, the worst that we've had probably in the history of our country.
Getting woke lunacy and transgender insanity the hell out of our government. We're stopping the indoctrination of our children, slashing billions and billions of dollars of waste, fraud, and abuse. And above all, we're saving the American dream. We're making America great again. And it's happening fast, too.
What the world has witnessed in the past 14 weeks is a revolution of common sense. That's all it is really. We're conservative. You're conservative. You're liberal. Whatever the hell you know what it's all about. It's about common sense when you think about it. We're for common sense. We like strong borders. We like good education. We like low interest rates.
We like being able to buy a beautiful car. and now deduct the interest on the loan. That's never happened before. We want a strong military. We want low taxes. You know, the Democrats, they campaign on we will raise your taxes. It's the first time. You know, I haven't been doing this that long. Actually, compared to a lot of people, they've been doing it for a long time.
They say, "You became president. I can't get out of Congress." And some of them can't even get into Congress. But, you know, I haven't been doing it that long, but all my life I've been watching and I've never heard people campaigning that they're going to raise taxes. It's always been, "We will reduce your taxes, Democrat, Republican.
" Now, they go, "We're going to raise your taxes." If our bill doesn't pass, the Republicans, we have a 100% just about Republican support, but it would be nice if we had just a couple of Democrats just to make sure because, you know, every once in a while you have a grandstander Republican. We have some grandstanders, but every once in a while, not many, not many, but remember who those grandstanders were and vote them the hell out of office.
Okay? Will you do that? vote them out of office. You know, they do it morally, they're morally bound. You know what the answer is? If you if you don't get it, you're going to have the highest tax increase in history instead of the greatest tax cut in history. If the Democrats prevail on this bill, you get a 58% tax increase.
Would you like that? These are the Democrats. But I've never seen all the years they they campaigned we will raise your taxes. I say what a this place has gone this country has gone crazy. And today they did it again. Some guy that I'd never heard of. John James. Is he a congressman? This guy he said he said ladies and gentlemen I am going to start the impeachment of Donald Trump.
What the hell did I do? Here we go again. They want to impeach me. This lunatic, this lunatic, he was up. Actually, I had the television way down and I said to our great first lady, "Listen, did I just hear I was being impeached again? We're getting good at this, though." No, they've gone totally crazy, these people.
And you know what? They've totally lost their confidence, too. They can't even tell a lunatic like this dumb guy that said it. And then you have the other one that's always with the cane. He's always impeaching and he raises his cane. He always impeaches. But they have no control over those people. They have no control.
And the reason is they've lost their confidence. They have no confidence anymore as a party. They have no candidates. And you know, when they say that Bernie Bernie's probably the best they have, by the way, he's about seven years older than me, more eight years older. One thing I got to give him credit.
He's a lunatic, but he's still pretty sharp. And he's going around with AOCC plus3. You know the plus three follow. They hang on for little bits. They hang on for nuggets and they get crowds. They say, "Oh, the crowd was our crowds are so much bigger than their crowds. Their crowds are small." If I ever had a crowd like their biggest crowd, they'd say, "It's over for Trump.
He's lost the magic." But this is great. And all the people outside, we love you. We put screens up. We're taking back our country from a sick political class that got rich selling America out and bleeding America dry. We don't let that happen anymore. And we had four great years. We had the greatest economy in the history of our country.
The stock market went up 88%. We did great. And we're going to do better now because now we're really we learned a little bit after years of leaders who sent your money to defend the borders of distant foreign nations. That's what we did. We fight for other nations but not for ourself. You finally have a president who is defending our borders and our nation.
Dr. Dr. After decades of politicians who destroyed Detroit to build up Beijing, you finally have a champion for workers in the White House. And instead of putting China first, I'm putting Michigan first. And I'm putting America first. After a lifetime of unelected bureaucrats stealing your paychecks, attacking your values, and trampling your freedoms, we are stopping their gravy train, ending their power trip, and telling thousands of corrupt, incompetent, and unnecessary deep state bureaucrats, "You're fired. Get the hell
out of here. You're fired. Get out of here." In 100 days, we have delivered the most profound change in Washington in nearly 100 years. I read a editorial today that this is the most consequential presidency in history. How about that? And it wasn't even by a group that would normally be supporting us.
It was a group of people that I think they tend to be on the liberal side, but they said it's the most important uh election, the November 5th. It changed it all. You have to see well you hear some of these numbers but that is the most consequential election that we've ever had in our country and what a nice thing.
I'm going to start again subscribing to that particular paper. Even if I don't read it much I'm going to subscribe. But it was a very nice compliment especially from them. They know who I'm talking about. We're ushering out the long reign of special interests and the radical left lunatics. And we're ushering in the golden age of America.
That's what we have. Right. Front Row Joe. Look at you. Front Row Joe's. I miss you guys. I miss the campaign. You haven't changed. You've lost a couple of pounds. Oh, he's probably he's probably getting to one of those jabers. You've lost a couple of pounds. You look good. And I have Mr. Wall here. This guy.
How many rallies have you gone to? Like hundreds. And we love him here. The wall. I'm going to one day I'm going to get that suit and I'm going to wear it on stage. We appreciate it, fellas. Great. Thank you. You know, we have a group of ladies. I don't know if they're here, but we have a group of women from North Carolina.
A large group, like 50 of the most beautiful women, and they've been to 129 rallies. They're happily married, I think, too. They just keep going to rallies all the time, but they're great. North Carolina, where we won by big numbers. Nowhere has this transformation been more dramatic than our southern border.
You have seen a change on your southern border that Sleepy Joe said couldn't happen. Sleepy Joe, the worst president in history, said it couldn't happen. The last administration engineered a massive border invasion, allowing gangs, cartels, and terrorists to infiltrate our communities and rape and murder our citizens.
And that is being nice about it. That's actually being nice about it. They are the worst. But standing before you today, I can proudly report that this heinous betrayal is over and that we have achieved the most secure border in American history by far. in American history. For two months in a row, we have now set all-time records, and this is by the media, the fake news media, which most of it is fake.
We've set all-time records for the lowest number of illegal border crossings ever recorded. Think of that. Ever recorded. The number of illegal border crossings released into the United States is down. Listen to this, please. 99.999%. Think of that. 99.999. Three people got in. Three. And I got angry as hell at Tom Holman.
And how did you allow three, Tom? I called up Christy. Christine Nome's doing a great job. Tom Hol. I said, "How did you allow three people?" No, they allowed a few in for medical reasons. They honestly they had a couple of were very sick. The ones that got in were really very sick and we had to take care of them, but it was a few people.
But three people got in versus hundreds of thousands in the last administration. Hundreds of thousands a month were pouring in. Biden had no control. Thank goodness he appointed a great borders. Right. Kamala. Kamala. Kamala. She was a great candidate. She was fantastic. Joe Biden was down 35 points. The debate was not a good one for him.
He said, "You know, if I didn't debate, I could have gone all the way." He was down 35 points and they decided to replace him. That never nothing ever happens like what happens to me. It never happens to anybody else. I had to beat two candidates. So he's down. This is like you're in a fight. Dana White, the UFC, you're in a fight and you you're just beating the guy so badly and they say, "Oh, let's put in another fighter." That's what happened.
And I knew nothing about her. She was vice president, but nobody knew a damn thing about her. She had nothing to do with the border even though she was appointed borders are the the great people all of the great people Paul and all of the border patrol people they never spoke to her they never heard about her for four years she never called but there's never been such a difference in anything as the difference between the border today and the border what it was just six months ago.
So I want to say congratulations America. It's about time. If we had not won the 2024 election. Oh, does that sound good? Right. We won the 24. All that work. The radical left Democrats would right now be importing the next 10 million invaders and giving amnesty to 30 or 40 million illegals. Many of them criminals.
Many of them frankly murderers and people of crime at the absolute highest level. Real real bad people. It would only be a matter of years or months until America itself became a failed third world nation. We were that was happening to us. We were going to be a third world nation. I'll tell you what, if these guys won, if this group of radical lunatics, and by the way, you know, Biden, we find out that whoever operated the autopen was the real president.
And Biden knew nothing about it. You know, we had a group of radical left guys who were very smart and and a woman, a particular woman, very very smart people. These are not stupid people. These are sick people, but they're not stupid people. And they were very smart. What they're best at is cheating at election.
They cheat on elections. That's their single greatest trait. They cheat like hell. And let me tell you, they tried to cheat on this election, but we made it too big to rig. Remember, too big to rig. They tried. I watched those numbers. I watched those numbers. We had Elon with us. Elon is a smart guy. Elon Musk. Elon Musk.
And I was sitting with Dana White and Elon Musk and I'm watching the numbers in Pennsylvania and we're winning so easily. Then all of a sudden it flatlined. And I said, you know, I said, I think they're cheating again. Look at this. What's going on? I think they're cheating again. And Elon looked at us. He goes, no, you're going to win.
They just don't know it yet. And about 15 minutes later, we won. you know, sort of crazy. I'll never forget you're going to win. They just don't know it yet. But you know what? We made it too big to rig. It was too big. Starting on day one, I deployed the US military to defend our country from the invasion of our border.
I shut down all migrant flights. Do you remember when we're talking about people coming in? They're trying to deny it. Okay? So, people are flowing in. They said, "No, I don't see any people." It's like, "What's wrong?" But then we saw airplanes going overhead. We said, "What the hell are those airplanes doing?" Big Boeing 757s were traveling right overhead, loaded up with people.
I say, "Where the hell are those planes going?" They were loaded up with migrants coming in illegally, flying in by plane, paid for by the US government. I'll tell you, they are they are sick. They are You remember that day? That was the day we found out that not only do we have to defend it here, we have to defend it not only in the water, but we have to defend it in the air. The planes were going over us.
I said, "What the hell is that?" I banned all welfare to illegals and I signed an order that will end automatic citizenship for the children of illegal aliens. No citizenship. For years, Joe Biden and the media told us that stopping the flood of illegal immigration was absolutely impossible. He said it was impossible.
He didn't know what the hell anybody was talking about. He said it was impossible that the president had no power to stop what was needed in the form of legislation. He needed legislation. He had no power to get it. But it turned out that all we needed was a new president. Within days of taking office, I signed the Lake and Riley Act.
Lake and Riley, beautiful Lake and Riley, who was killed by an illegal immigrant, viciously violently killed. But I signed the Lake and Riley Act to facilitate the expulsion of dangerous criminal aliens. And when necessary, we had to put them in jail. We couldn't take a chance that they'd come back in again.
In recent weeks, ICE, who are great, these people are great, has arrested dozens of child rapists along with murderers, kidnappers, drug traffickers, and thieves, and frankly, people from mental institutions. We've designated six murderous Mexican drug cartels as foreign terrorist organization. We have also designated two bloodthirsty transnational gangs, MS-13 and trendy raw TDA.
They've been designated the highest level of terrorist and that lets us do a lot of things that you wouldn't be able to do. We got to get them out of here before they kill more people. They've killed plenty. My administration has increased arrests of known and suspected terrorists by 655%. Is that okay? We tried to get it higher.
We tried to get it higher, but the courts are giving us a hard time. Can you believe? You know, I won on the basis of I think the number one thing was on illegal immigration, the border. The people pouring across our border that are from all over the world. They're they're unbelievably bad in many cases unbelievably bad people. I think that was the number one thing and now the courts are trying to say that you know that doesn't matter.
I don't think it's going to be allowed to stand. Democrats have vowed mass invasion and mass migration. We are delivering mass deportation and it's happening very fast. And the worst of the worst are being sent to a nononsense prison in El Salvador. Why don't you watch watch this? Watch this. Take a look. Get it. Right. I got
it. Heat. Heat. Heat. Hey, Heat. Here we go. commander
anything. Hey USA. USA. So under President Trump, America is a dumb. Americans, the radical left Democrats, who are so bad for this country, are fighting to protect TDA, you just saw that, and MS-13 criminals. And you don't even know which is worse. But they are the top of the line. For years, Democrat politicians did not raise one word of protest as American women and girls were raped and slaughtered by these monsters.
They were raped and slaughtered by numbers that you don't even want to hear about. But the second we try to deport them, the radical Democrat party is racing to the defense of some of the most violent savages on the face of the earth. Who the hell would vote for these people? They're racing to the courts to help them.
But this is not what the people want. This is not what they voted for in record numbers. I won the election. We won every swing state. We won the popular vote. And we got 312 electoral college votes. And just this month, two Venezuelan members of TDA Strea were arrested in Washington State for kidnapping a 58-year-old woman driving a power drill through her hand to extort her bank account information, shooting her, leaving her for dead.
And miraculously, she just survived. But she's not feeling so well. In January, a trendy Ara member in Chicago kidnapped three women, took them in an alley, lined them up, and shot them each in the head. They all died. And the FBI recently assessed that these vicious gangs have been sent by the foreign regime in Venezuela to ferment violence and instability in the United States of America. Can't let that happen.
And it's not just, in all fairness, not Venezuela. It's all over the world. It's all over. They come in from the Congo. They come in from Africa. the Congo. They've emptied out their prisons into our country, but they come from Africa, Asia, South America. They come from all over bad parts of Europe. That's why we've invoked the Alien Enemies Act to expel every foreign terrorist from our soil as quickly as possible.
Never forget the same people that we now claim we're not and we're not going to we're just not taking this crap anymore. We can't. They're claiming that we're not allowed to deport illegals. And they're the ones who orchestrated an eight-year campaign to jail their political opponents. Do you know what I mean? They want to jail.
They want to jail. That's all they can do. Jail their political opponents. What they did to people is a disgrace. And now they come after us. Why are you not nice to them? Why are you not nice to them? They tried to jail your president. They tried to jail except for the really courageousness of a few very good judges.
You know, we could have been we could have been calling you from the other side of the bar saying, "Hey fellas, how about a little protest? How about a little protest?" But they cheered the assassination of CEOs, looted our cities, and destroyed our property. No, they tried to jail our politicians, and they tried to jail a lot of people, many of whom didn't even know what the hell they were being looked at for.
These people are criminals. If they had their way, we would be living in a third world hell hole. That's what they want. Removing the invaders is not just a campaign pledge. It's my solemn duty as commander-in-chief. I have an obligation to do it. Save our country. And that's why we got despite the fake polls.
You know, they do these polls where they interview far more Democrats than Republic. I saw them over the last few days and I had them checked out. They interview far more Democrats for the polls. They interview Democrats by big numbers and then Republicans by small. They say Trump only has a 44% approval rating.
Well, it's actually not bad, but when you figure that if it were a legit poll, it would be in the 60s or 70s. Is these people are a bunch of crooked people? No, they interview more Democrats than Republicans. In other words, they take the poll and they interview Democrats. They poll Democrats and then they say they try and depress it as much just like they write bad stories.
97% of the stories written about me, think of it, were negative. And yet we won in a landslide because they have no credibility. And also, we cannot allow a handful of communist radical left judges to obstruct the enforcement of our laws and assume the duties that belong solely to the president of the United States.
judges are trying to take away the power given to the president to keep our country safe and it's not a good thing. But I I hope for the sake of our country that the Supreme Court is going to save this because we have to do something. These people are just looking to destroy our country.
Nothing will stop me in the mission to keep America safe again. It's very simple. Keep America safe again. And our first 100 days have also produced historic results in the battle to defeat Biden's inflation disaster and bring jobs and wealth back to America and bring them back to Michigan. Okay, we want to bring it back. As an example, since I took office, the cost of eggs is down 87%.
Now, right, you remember a few weeks ago before Thanksgiving, before we heard about it before I heard about it a long time ago before Thanksgiving, I heard about it and then I was hearing that I wasn't president. This guy was barely president. Nobody knew was he president. Who the hell was president? To this day, I say it was the one that operated the autopen, but who what do I know? But I was hearing about eggs.
And then all of a sudden, we have a great election victory. And my first week in office, they start screaming at me, "What about the price of eggs? Eggs? Eggs?" I said, "I've only been here for six days." I was there six days. I said, "What's wrong with eggs?" They said, "The price of eggs has gone through the roof and you won't be able to have them for Easter.
" So I put a very capable Brooke Rollins, who's our wonderful commissioner of agriculture that you know in Michigan. I said, "Broo, I've only been here six days before I heard, maybe even less, maybe five, maybe four, but it was my first week." And I said, "Broo, you got to save me here.
I'm getting killed about eggs. What the hell's going on with eggs?" She said, "Well, you can't get them. the price is through the roof and it looks like we're gonna have a real problem for Easter. You're not going to have eggs. I said, "Brooke, that doesn't sound politically viable to me. That doesn't sound good because nobody's going to believe me when you get out there that it's sleepy Joe Biden's fault.
" So, Brooke, you got to get going, Brooke. Please. And she did a great job. And you had so many eggs for Easter and your price was down 87% from that point. Prices are coming way down. You know, the fake news doesn't say they said he pledged. Now, I pledged safe orders. I pledged all sorts of things, but they said he pledged to bring prices down.
Well, that's what I've done. They're trying to say the prices have gone up. Your energy, your car, your gasoline, and they have three states this week, a couple of days ago, that were $1.98 a gallon. So, gasoline prices are down by a lot. Energy prices are down. Mortgage rates actually just went down.
Prescription drug prices just saw their largest monthly decline ever recorded. How about that? Remember what you heard? prescription drug prices just took the biggest plunge ever since they've recorded the prices which have basically gone up except for my four years. They did pretty well but uh we got to know that system.
The system is a bad system but they just took the biggest uh dive ever in the history of prescription drug prices. Think of that. That's a big thing. I got to say it again and again because they will never tell you that. The fake news will never tell you that. Grocery prices have gone down. Everything's gone down. And yet, I saw this person on MSDNC, which I think is probably even worse than CNN.
It's probably worse. Probably worse than CNN. But I saw this this horrible horrible anchor. How these people get jobs. I wouldn't hire them to do the most menial of chores. But I saw this person. He campaigned on bringing prices down. Every price has gone down. What am I going to do? I mean, think of it. Gasoline was almost $4 not so long ago.
And now, Mike, we just hit 198 in a lot of states. Think of it. And they're saying and and you know what? And inflation is basically down. And interest rates came down despite the fact that I have a Fed person who's not really doing a good job. But I won't say that. I want to be very nice. I want to be very nice and respectful to the Fed.
You're not supposed to criticize the Fed. You're supposed to let him do his own thing. But I know much more than he does about interest rates. Believe me. Core inflation has reached the lowest rate in four years. And last month, we had the largest drop in consumer prices since the pandemic.
This is all done in a 100 days. Think of that. This is all done in a 100 days. But when you watch the fake news, you see fake polls. Again, they poll more Democrats than Republican. Democrats aren't going to say, "I'm going to vote for Trump." And we still got 45 44%. But on the legitimate polls, I think we're in the 60s.
I really I think we're in the 60s or 70s or something. In three months, we have created 350,000 jobs. Think of that. For the first time in recent memory, job gains for nativeborn Americans now exceed job gains for foreign workers. This is for the first time, and nobody even knows when. Americans now are doing better than foreign workers.
How about that? I mean, that's okay. I want the foreign I want everyone to do well, but that's okay. And to curb inflation, we're cutting a record number of job killing regulations. We beat in the four-year first administ, which was a tremendous success. We cut more regulations than any president in history, including uh two-term presidents, including Roosevelt, who was more than a two-term president.
We cut more regulations than any president in history in one term and now our second term. And you know, I don't know why it was so important to win because they used to say the fake news, to be a great president, you have to serve two terms. So now we're going to serve two terms. Now they've taken that one. Cross. Right. Right. Dr.
Oz, cross that one off. Cross that one off. No, they say it all the time. When I was out, they say, "Well, they go out. Thank you. Thank you." Sure. But we've ended the radical left. Well, we actually already served three, but if you count, but remember, I like the victories. I like the three victories, which we absolutely had.
I just don't like the results of the middle term. The results. I don't want those results, John. I don't want those results. What results? What a disgrace. If we would have had this group for another year, we wouldn't have a country left. I really mean it. I don't think we would have had a country left.
And now we're respected all over the world. They're coming from all over the world to see your president. They're coming from India. They're coming from France. They're coming from Spain. Yeah. They're coming from China, too. Yeah. They're coming from China. They're coming from all over the world to see your president.
They want to make a deal. They want to make a deal. And you know, we'll make deals, but we don't have to. We are the ones that have the product. We are the ones at the United States. They want a piece of our product. We can just set the price. But I want to be respectful and I want to be nice. But if it takes too long, I'll just set a price.
Say you could buy or you don't have to buy. We lost, think of this, we lost billions and billions of dollars a day. Billions, not millions, billions of dollars a day. And under sleepy Joe Biden, what's better, Crooked Joe or Sleepy Joe? Ready? A poll. A free poll. Cuz these pollsters are so corrupt. I This is a real poll.
We're going to poll Crooked Joe or Sleepy Joe. Ready? What's What's a better name for us to call him? Sleepy Joe or Crooked Joe? That's I'm not surprised this happens. I sort of loved Sleepy Joe, you know, it just had a nice ring to it cuz he had one ability I didn't have. He goes to the beach, right? and he could fall asleep at a cottage drooling out of the side of his mouth and he'd be sleeping within minutes carrying the aluminum chair.
You know the kind that's meant for old people and children to carry. It weighs like about 4 ounces and he couldn't get his feet out of the sand and he'd sleep. He'd fall in this thing and with it and he'd have, you know, he's president so you'd have cameras. He'd be in a bathing suit. Somebody convinced him that he looks great in a bathing suit.
He's 82 years old. Carrie Grant didn't look great in a bathing suit when he was 82. You don't look great. You know, at some point you you have other assets, okay? But that's that one. But he'd he'd go and he'd walk in the sand and he'd fall into that thing and within seconds he was leaping. I'd be tossing and turning and scheming and thinking and saying, "How am I going to beat China? How am I going to stop the war with Russia and Ukraine?" This guy could fall asleep with cameras blazing, right? Not too many cameras were blazing, but enough were blazing
that you saw it. I thought it was a great ability that he had. Actually, we've ended the radical left war on American energy. We've stopped their crusade on coal. Did you see what I did the other day? Clean, beautiful coal. I said you're not allowed to use the word coal unless you say clean, beautiful coal.
So you have guys getting up, Department of Energy, we have great people at Department of Energy. They talk about clean, beautiful coal. You know, China uses coal. They're opening up a coal plant every week, a massive coal plant. But we're not allowed to use it. But now we are because last week I gave it absolute total approval.
And you know what? I don't give approval to those stupid windmills that go round and round and round. And we've ended the Green New Deal. We've reopened Anoir, the greatest drilling site anywhere in the world in Alaska, and implemented the new energy policy of the United States. You know what it is? We have a policy.
It's called drill, baby drill. That's our policy. That's our policy, Michael. Right. Great. Michael Watley, head of the Republican party. He's done a good job. Him and Laura, they took the party by storm, right? He had But he had a good candidate, but had a couple of good candidates, didn't he? Michael's been incredible, actually.
Michael Watley, North Carolina. He watched in 2020. He did so good for me in, you know, he was in North Carolina. He did so great. What's the problem over there? What's the problem? Is that a radical left lunatic? He's just a child. All right, get about Yeah. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, ma'am. I thought it was a guy. Thank you.
And she now has to go home to her mother who's a big Trump fan. Her mother's watching. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I I said he and it's a she. I'm sorry. To keep my promise to the great state of Michigan, I terminated Joe Biden's insane electric vehicle mandate where you were mandated to buy an electric vehicle. You were mandated within just a few years to buy an electric vehicle.
How about that? And you know what? They're great, but people don't not everybody wants them. You got to be able to buy a hybrid, a gasoline powered car. You can buy lots of different cars, but you can't be mandated to do anything. And I've already proudly imposed a 25% tariff on all foreign automobiles. Any any foreign car like they do, Todd.
This is going to create more jobs in this state and this country. And to help these auto makers bring their factories home as rapidly as possible, I've just signed an executive order to give partial tariff rebates to any company that assembles its cars right here in the USA. In other words, in other words, if they can't make it in time, because they have to do it here, otherwise they have I'm giving them a little bit of a break, right? They took in parts from all over the world.
I don't want that. I want them to make their parts here, but I gave them a little bit of time. It's 15% and then 10% of the parts. So, it's not so bad. Somebody would say, "Oh, well, that's a change in part." It's not. It's called a little flexibility. The guys were crying. They love it. Everything's good. But just in case we can't get everything in time. We gave them a little bit.
So, it's 15% of the parts and then it's 10% of the parts. We give them a little time before we slaughter them if they don't do this. Right. They're going to make so much money. They're going to have so many jobs. No, but jobs are way up. Jobs are way up. We're pleased to be joined tonight by Brian Panbecker.
Do you know who that is? Of the auto workers for Trump. And Brian is a union guy. Loves the unions. Loves everything. But he knew that Trump was right. Brian, come up here. Brian, I got to see Brian. Look at the arms in this guy. Look at the arms. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President. It's a great honor to be here on your 100th day in office of your second term.
And I just want to remind you of something I told you at one of your last rallies before the election. I have got it on video. I've watched it dozens of times at home. After I was able to speak, I turned to you and I said, "Mr. President McComem County is going to win Michigan for you. And that's exactly what happened. We had a margin of victory of 70,000 votes in this county alone. Thank you, Mcome County.
You know, I met President Trump eight years ago in Novi. And uh we had never met before. And as I was stepping towards him backstage to get my picture taken, I knew I only had 10 15 seconds to say something to him before we got our pictures. Fortunately, my son was standing behind me. So, I've got a witness to this. And I said, "Mr.
Trump, we've got the keys wait to the White House waiting for you in Mcome County." and he kind of chuckled. He said, 'Oh yeah, how's that? And I said, 'Well, Mome County is the home of the Reagan Democrats. If you come to Mcome County and you ask for their support and you get it, you might win Mcome County big enough to carry the whole state of Michigan.
And that's exactly what he did. So, I want to say thank you to the auto workers, everybody who works in the automotive field, the suppliers, every one of you, the truck drivers. Thank you so much for supporting the greatest president in our lifetimes. Now, I've got a little uh business announcement I want to make. I hope the president doesn't mind.
But when I was backstage with him earlier and got my picture taken, I said, "Mr. President, I've got a deal that you can't refuse." And he said, "What's that?" And I said, "Well, I'm writing a book, and it's going to be about my political journey. I've been involved in some things here in Michigan, conservative causes like right to work and the Michigan civil rights initiative.
" and and I said, um, you have a publishing company, Winning Team Publishing. It's run by Don Jr. and his partner. I said, I'll agree to use your publishing company if you agree to write the forward to my book. He stuck out his hand and said, "I'll do it." That's how you negotiate with the best negotiator in the world.
So listen, I got one last thing to say. All of us have a job to do. Number one, we have to win the 2026 elections. It has to happen. Shri Thanadar, that lunatic Democrat from Detroit, is already threatening to impeach President Trump if they get the majority back. But luckily, right now, we've got good people in Congress like Congressman John James over here who are stopping that from happening. But listen up.
So, we got to get out and and we don't have any time to waste. We got to start talking to our friends, our neighbors, our family, our co-workers. The the campaign for 2026 starts tomorrow. We've got to win that election. So, the work is not over. The work has just begun. November 5th was not the end.
It was the beginning of the golden age. And let's all let's all tell President Trump how much we support what he's done the first 100 days in office. Thank you. Oh, yeah. I forgot there's one other thing I wanted to say in front of all these thousands of people to President Trump. President Trump, I love you. That's great. Thank you. Good.
Good man. He's a great guy. You know, he was with me from day one. 2015 before 2016. He was there from day one. He got it. He said, "We're losing our car industry." That's what he really cared about. He lo He just said, "I had so many friends. They were laid off. It's horrible. They lay us off like it's nothing.
" And the business went to China. It went to Japan. Went to all countries all over the world. They're laying us off, sir. And he said, "We can solve that." I told him, "We can solve that so fast." He's one of the early people that got it. And we've solved it. We're going to be doing numbers that nobody's ever believed.
We have We'll be the number one in the world again. Nobody can believe it because we have been beaten up so badly by these countries that have rigged the whole thing. They they fight like hell. They're smart. Their product is good, but our product's going to be a lot better. We're going to do something that nobody believes and he saw it right at the beginning.
So, I appreciate it, Brian. And he was there at the I love the guys from the beginning. I love those early guys. Those guys are right there. They were there from the beginning. No, you you're going to see numbers and you're already seeing them. Look, you know, we have many Hondas coming in and they're coming in. They can't We let them build their cars here.
We don't want them to build them in Japan. We love Japan. We don't want them building them in Japan. We want them to build them here. We want China to build them in here. We want them all to build them right in here. That's what they've done to us for 40 years. And they've drained us. Now we're doing it to them at a better level than they ever dreamed possible to further rebuild the industrial bedrock of our country.
I've imposed 25% tariffs on foreign aluminum and steel. It's keeping our steel mills going. I did that. If I didn't do that with steel in the first uh my first term, we wouldn't have a steel mill in the United States right now and everybody knows that. I did it for washing machines, too, by the way. That's why I asked the people at Whirlpool. They were going to close.
They were in deep trouble. I did it because they were dumping machines. I did a 50% tariff. Was going to raise it to 100%. They didn't even have to bother. They became a tremendously successful company overnight. They were ready to close. They came to me with tears in their eyes in my office early on first term and uh we're doing it now at levels never seen before and it the results are going to be even better even better because we've been abused by friend and foe and in many cases friend has abused us more so than foe on trade.
So I want to just let you know you're going to be very proud of this country very soon. And with my China tariffs we're ending the greatest job theft in the history of the world. China's taken more jobs from us than any country has ever taken from another country. And that doesn't mean we're not going to get along. We'll get along with China.
I mean, the tariff now is at 145%. So essentially, they said that's a big difference between that and zero. But I think it's going to work out. They want to make a deal and they're going to we're going to make a deal, but it's going to be a fair deal. It's not going to be a deal that we lose a trillion dollars a year like they did with Biden. That guy was so bad.
He was so bad under Biden. And remember this, we were losing $5 billion dollar a day on trade. And now we're making money. We're actually making money instead of Do you know what? Five billion. Think of that, Mike. Five. How many pillars you have to make to lose five billion dollars? You can make them for a thousand years.
No, we were losing five billion dollars a year. Now we've got it where we're making money. And the tariffs haven't even really kicked in. The 25% on cars have. But you know what that means? That means that you're going to make the cars. We don't need the cars from outside. When they say, "Oh, sir, we want to send you a lot of cars.
" I said, "We really don't want your cars. We really don't want We want to make our own cars." That includes Canada. That includes Mexico who have taken tremendous a tremendous amount of our business. Canada's taken off a tremendous like 10 12%. Mexico is 32%. They took 32% of our car production. We don't want them to have that.
We want that. Why are we giving it to them? Why are we subsidizing Canada $200 billion a year? Why are we subsidizing Mexico for $300 billion a year? There's no reason for it. I'm proud to be uh the president for the workers and not the outsourcers. A president who stands up for Main Street, not Wall Street.
You know, I like Wall Street. I like Wall Street. I have a gorgeous, beautiful building on Wall Street, 40 Wall Street. Anybody? You want a little space? I'll get you some space real quickly. Now, I've got one of the most beautiful buildings in the world on Wall Street. But I still like Main Street because you're Main Street.
I want Main Street over Wall Street. And we uh want to protect the middle class, not the political class. That's all. I haven't done this very long. We want to protect We want to protect our people. You know, this is the greatest when you think about this. Look, here we are. It's not even like election.
It's after the election and you have crowds like this and TA have them. We're going to do the commencement at uh University of Alabama. And they just called and they said, "This going to be the biggest crowd we've ever had for we've never had a crowd like this." And I'm doing it at West Point.
And they called and said the same thing. We love West Point. We love University of Alabama. We love Alabama. You know how what I want Alabama by? Like uh almost 50 points. So when they called and they say, "Would you like to do the commencement?" I said, "Okay, I'll do it." But they're going to have the biggest crowd they ever had by maybe four or five times.
They told me, "Thanks for all of the things that we've done and to our policies. Trillions of dollars are now pouring into the United States because of common sense." Just common sense. Apple, great company, was building everything in China. Now, they just announced that they're spending $500 billion dollar to invest in America, not in China.
My friend Jensen from Nvidia, they're spending, you know what Nvidia is? They're spending $500 billion. TSMC, the biggest chip maker in the world by far from Taiwan, they're spending $200 billion dollar in the United States. Amazon $21 billion. Johnson and Johnson $55 billion. The MAC $20 billion. Merc Stalantis, General Motors are putting in billions and billions of dollars.
And many other companies and as a result of our policies, for the first time in modern history, more Americans believe that our country is headed in the right direction than the wrong direction. They have a poll, a crazy poll, probably a fake poll, too. So, I don't know. I don't care.
But first time ever in I think ever that they're saying the country is headed in the right direction. Has never happened before. I don't know why, but we've accomplished more in three months than most administrations accomplished in four years or even eight years. And we're just getting started. Believe me, we're just getting started. We're pleased to be joined by some great people.
A person that I number one I have so much confidence in him. They the fake news is after him. Really after him. But he's a tough cookie. They don't know how tough he is. Secretary of Defense Pete Hegen. Pete. Wow, that's pretty good. How are the hoodies doing? Not too good, right? Our new administrator of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, somebody that everybody knows, but this guy, you know, the show was a big success, but sometimes it hurts your image to have a television show.
He's the top. I mean, he went to Harvard. I shouldn't even mention that anymore because that used to be a good thing. today. It doesn't mean much, but he went to University of Pennsylvania Medical School. Top student, top doctor, top everything. One of the smartest guys in medicine, also a big star, Dr. Meett Oz.
Dr. Oz. Thank you, doctor. Thank you. A man who waited today, just came here. He was all sweaty and grimy. I said, "What the hell happened?" He ran into the building because he wanted to vote in Congress. And I hear we passed the vote, John James, by a lot. Right. And thank you for making it here. He wanted He had a vote.
I said, John, do me a favor. Stay and vote. We're voting essentially on the big beautiful that gorgeous big beautiful bill. I said, you know, I want you there badly, but you got to vote, please. So, thank you very much, John. Good job. Michigan House Speaker Matt Hall. Matt, thank you. Thank you, Matt. Michigan Senate Republican Leader Eric Nesbin. Thank you, Eric.
Thank you very much. Michigan GOP Chair Jim Runstead. Thank you, Jim. Good job. Nice time. Thank you, Jim. Great job. One of my favorite people. I mean, we just had such success. You know, we had uh so many votes stolen in 2020. And then this guy came in and they didn't steal them from his state, North Carolina. Told you.
But they didn't steal them. He had 601 lawyers and they had lawyers at every voting booth. And I said, "Who is that guy that did so well because we won the state. Other states, you know, they inched us out and, you know, at the end they inch, they just inch us out. Crooked as hell." But this guy didn't let that happen.
His name is Michael Watley, North Carolina. and now he's the head of the Republican party RNC and he's great and I must tell you he worked with a great woman my daughter-in-law Laura who was unbelievable who's got a very successful television show that was a tremendous combin that was a very important combination also the great and you see him on television he's unbelievable hey Stephen come up here fast the great Stephen Miller do we like Stephen Come here, Stephen.
I love this guy. I love this guy. There is nobody smarter or tougher than Stephen Miller. Stephen, say who's enjoying a hundred golden days of America. President Trump has achieved the most secure border in American history. He's fighting violent crime. He's fighting the drug cartels. He's cutting your taxes. He's cutting wasteful spending.
He's draining the swamp. He's standing up to the radical left. He's standing up to the communists. And he's making America stronger than it's ever been. President Trump will never stop fighting for you, your children, and your family. And President Trump will make sure that in this country, not illegal aliens, not criminals, not gang bangers, but American citizens come first, last, and always. Thank you.
And thank you, President Trump, for being the greatest president in American history. He's great. This guy, he is something special. and he's been with us right from day one. Right from day one, Stephen's been there. Right. He's been great. A man who put on about 928 rallies for me. We didn't have we didn't have a glitch. Justin Caparell.
Justin, thank you. Wherever you are, he's probably backstage working. We did we did over 900 of these. Thank you, Justin. And Margot Martin. Does anyone know Margot? Beautiful Margot. I call her the world's greatest photographer. Where is Margot? Margot is great. Where are you, Margot? And she's very shy, actually. She's both beautiful and shy.
Thank you. Where? Where? Margot, come up here, Margot. Come up. Come up. You got to This is the most beautiful. Now, I'm not allowed to say this. It's the end of my political career, but I'm going to say it anyway. She's the most beautiful photographer in the world. I don't know if she's the best.
But she's the most beautiful Trump 2028. Anybody? People love Margot. And how about Caroline? How's Caroline doing? Huh? How is our Caroline doing? Caroline has taken the world by storm. She's taken it. And you know, we have a a man here that I don't know, but he's defending me all the time on CNN. And he defends me really well, but he can't go too far because if he goes too far, he'll get fired.
I said, "You're amazing. You can take it right to the edge." And he really does a good job. He's not allowed to go any further. He would be off, you know, if he really went totally crazy, which he'd like to do. But I think he's terrific. Scott Jennings. Where's Scott? Where are you, Scott? Come here, Scott.
This guy really I've watched him for years. I don't know him, but he likes Trump. Come here, Scott. Oh, CNN. This is the end of Scott. Who cares? Don't worry. We'll take care of you, Scott. Scott Jennings. Really great. Thank you. Thank you. Michigan. We were flying in here today and I said, "Look at these farms. I got to get a farm in Michigan because when you own as many libs as I do, you got to put a place to put them all.
" Thank you all very much. Thank you, Scott. And I also want to thank the rest of the Michigan Republican delegation for all the work they do in Congress and who are back in Washington working on the big beautiful bill. the big we're going to name it I think the big beautiful bill. In a 100 days I've taken more than 1,000 executive actions and I could recite our accomplishments all night long.
And by the way, did you just see what I did? Straws. I wiped out the paper straw. Little thing. These are the little things. Your sink. You ever try buying a new sink and no water comes out? Your showerheads, your toilets, the whole thing. It's a disaster. We now have it so you can have as much water as you want because it's not an environmental problem.
You have areas they can't get rid of their water and yet they have they put restrictors on them. You used to take them off but now you can't because they're welded in. But now you don't have to worry about that because we've opened up your faucets and we've opened up especially me. I don't like taking a shower where the water goes drip drip drip onto my luxurant air. I need a lot of water.
I need everything I can get. I don't need to be under a shower trying to get water to come out of that damn thing. So, we've opened up the showerheads, the faucets, the toilets, the washing machines that don't give you water. All of that stuff has been opened up and we're giving you gas ovens, gas stoves if you'd like.
No more electric. You can have electric if you want. I have a lot of friends. They like gas better. You're supposed to sell your gas stove or get it I don't know who do you sell it to. Maybe another country because we're the only country that would be so stupid to that. But uh the stoves now you can have gas stoves all you want.
Put four of them in your kitchen. I couldn't care less. It's all common sense. People were so angry about that. Remember they were all angry. Get rid of your gas stove. You have to go to electric. There's something they have with electric that's amazing. And by the way, Elon makes a great car. But not everybody's going to want it.
You know, they all say, "Oh, well, Trump is maybe he's under the under the thumb of Elon. Do you think Elon was happy about ending the all electric mandate?" I don't think he was too happy. But he's a great guy, you know. Honestly, never said a thing. He says, "Let me just compete fairly." By the way, it's not fair what they've done to him, too.
That is a disgrace. That is a disgrace. But he's a great guy and he's really helped us. And you know they've saved $150 billion dollars on waste, fraud, and abuse doge. So we want to thank him. He's a incredible guy. Anybody that can land a rocket ship, I saw this thing come in. I said, "You got to be kidding.
This rocket's coming in." You know, most of them go right into the ocean, but he lands it. I was on the phone with somebody talking and I saw this thing coming in. It's spinning out of control, coming down. It's all burning. It's on fire. Looks like hell. I said, "Well, just another rocket going into the ocean.
" And then all of a sudden, you see the fire pouring out of the engines and it starts to slow up, slow, then it's straight. Then it starts moving over a little bit. Then I say, "Oh no, it's hitting the gandry. It's going to hit, you know, and the engines go straightens it out and it gets hugged like you hug your beautiful little baby, right?" And I said, "Who the hell did that?" It was Elon.
And he told me, "You don't have a space program if you have to drop a billion dollar machine into the water every time you fly. You have to save those suckers." So, he does. He's he's an amazing guy and he's a great American and he loves our country. He loves you and uh he's paid he's paid a big price to help, but I have a feeling it's going to end up being good for him.
Actually, I really do. I established the new presidential commission to make America Healthy Again, chaired by our new Secretary of Health and Human Services, Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., he's doing a good job, Dr. Oz, right? He's doing a good job. And he's a little bit different, but I want to tell you, he's a great guy.
He's a great guy, and he loves his country. Just last week, Bobby announced that we're banning eight major artificial dyes from our food supply. Sounds good to me. And on day one, I created that very right right now very successful Department of Government efficiency headed by Elon. That was a big thing doing that. I mean, the numbers are really incredible. Doge.
So, it was a very big thing. We terminated the left-wing money laundering scam known as USAID. How about the money that was going out? How about the money that was going out? Billions and billions. They were giving individual people billions of dollars. Can you believe it? People that had nothing. They got a billion.
They got one got two billion. Two billion for the environment. Had a $100 in the bank. They got two billion dollar. Not two million. You know, two million would have been a lot. 200,000 would have been a lot, but it would have been fine. Two billion dollars. And we directed all federal workers to return to the office in person or unfortunately they're fired.
You're fired. You know, some of these guys got their golf handicap way down during the so-called time where they're supposed to be working at home. You know, they weren't working at home. Who the hell would work at home? How do you work at home? and terrible. And we, you know, we found a lot of them where they had second jobs.
They were just taking us for a ride. They're all taking us for a ride. The foreign countries were really taking us for a ride, both on military and on trade. But we stopped it and we're stopping it. I withdrew from the unfair and ridiculous Paris climate accord where we were paying trillions of dollars. We would have spent numbers like you wouldn't believe.
And China wouldn't have spent anything. Russia wouldn't have spent anything. India wouldn't have spent. But we would have spent over a trillion dollars. I withdrew from the corrupt World Health Organization where we were paying $470 million and China was paying with a population quite a bit larger than ours. Thank you.
Where Let's The problem with us, we have no idea what size our population. They allowed so many people on under Biden. But let's assume it's 325 million. China's 1.4 billion. We were paying $470 million and China was paying $39 million and China was running the whole show. So I said, "No, thank you." I withdrew. They offered me to sign up at 39 million.
I still said no because it was sort of scammy. I didn't like it. And Biden came back in and he signed up. And they knew we could have signed up for 39 million or less. He came back in and he signed up for the same as what they were paying before, almost $500 million. Now, that's a lot of money, but it's nothing compared to the trillions of dollars that they waste.
But that's the way it is. They know they can sign up for less. They don't even care. It's like they don't want to have the conversation. And you're talking about a $450 million difference. But they came up right in the first week. He said, "No, no, we're going right back in." Okay, I can understand that. But you go in for 39 million.
and they could make a deal for 39 million. They signed up for $472 million and I withdrew from the anti-American UN Human Rights Council, which is totally disgusting. In three months, my administration has brought home 46 American hostages and citizens detained abroad. We paid nothing. We don't pay. We don't pay. You know, if you pay those kidnappings go way up, we don't pay.
Every time Biden brought people back, they'd pay six billion. Six billion. Six billion. Three times they brought back three hostages. Oh, how is it? Well, I think it's a fair deal. What do we pay? $6 billion. Wait a minute. For three people? Six billion. Six billion dollars. It's not right. I mean, it's just not right. They have no idea.
Honestly, grossly incompetent, stupid people. More than Biden brought home in four years. We brought more back in just a matter of weeks than Biden brought home in years. And he paid a fortune and we paid nothing. We got Mexico to turn over 29 of the biggest cartel leaders in their country. And we're charging Mexico and Canada and China big tariffs because of the fact that they've allowed fentinol to come in and poison our country.
They're paying a lot of money for that. And because of that, you'll watch. It's going to stop. It's already slowing down. Within six weeks, we also apprehended the terrorists responsible for the attack that killed 13 American service members known as Abbegate. I got to know them. I got to know those families very well.
They're devastated during the disastrous withdrawal from Afghanistan and brought him home. I mean, we brought uh this guy home to America. We got the guy that did it. We got him. They were looking for years, but we got him. That it took us to get him. We got him on the in the first month, brought him home to face Justin.
And it was that gross incompetence that probably led Putin to go in and attack Ukraine because they were never going to. That was never going to happen. If I were president, the Ukraine Russia war would have never ever happened. Not even a little chance. We have ended the weaponization of law enforcement and fired Joe Biden's handpicked cro.
These are pro-rime US attorneys, except if it's a political person like me. You know, I was under investigation more than the late great Alons Capone. Al Capone was the greatest gangster of them all. If he had dinner with you and if he didn't like you, you were dead. You were a dead person. You'd be under a foundation somewhere in a nice big building or sports center growing up.
And I spent far more time under investigation than Alons Capone. How about that? You like that? I didn't like that. I didn't like it. We removed senior FBI officials who were corrupt and misdirected the resources they sent to SWAT teams after grandmothers and J6 hostages. What they did to those J6 hostages.
And they did nothing to the people that took over Portland and took over Seattle. They literally took over a big portion of Seattle or in Minnesota, Minneapolis, you remember that disaster where they said, "No, this is a peaceful rally." The CNN lunatic anchor, the guy has about the personality of an ant. This is not a man meant for television.
He said, he said, "No, the rally is quite peaceful." Then he got hit with a brick or something. And over his shoulder, the entire skyline of Minneapolis was burning. You remember that one? The entire skyline was burning. And I have to be careful because that gentleman right there, one of the greatest purchases of advertising in the history of the world, Mike Lindell.
There has never been a better purchaser. He comes from Minnesota. Oh, congratulate. He's the greatest purchaser of ads in history. If he would have bought my ads, I could had 10 times more ads on. has never been have. Is there any station that doesn't have a pillow added? But he's great and he's doing great and he's got a beautiful new wife and all that stuff and I'm proud of you.
Look at him holding hands. They're still holding hands. I'm very proud of that's nice. Usually by this time usually in a lot of people I know, Mike, by this time it's over. It's over. Look at you holding hands. I love that. I saw that. I pardoned hundreds of political prisoners who had been grossly mistreated.
We created a brand new DOJ task force on anti-Christian bias. It's a big problem. I stripped the security clearances of the disgraced intelligence agents who lied about Hunter Biden's laptop from hell. Remember the laptop from hell? Remember the laptop from hell? When you had the 51 agents, they said, "Oh, Russia did it.
Russia, Russia did it. Russia did everything. Russia did it." And it was all like horrible, disgusting stuff. You hadn't seen the worst of it, but it truly is the laptop. By the way, a very brilliant reporter for the New York Post wrote a book called The Laptop from Hell. You ought to read that book. It is really, it tells you the facts.
Okay? It tells you the facts. Mr. divine. The great the great Miss Divine. She wrote an amazing book actually, The Laptop from Hell. We also terminated the clearances of the Biden crime family and Joe Biden himself because he's corrupt. And I banned all government censorship and restored free speech in America. We have free speech.
We didn't have free speech. I ended all of the lawless so-called diversity, equity, and inclusion all across the entire federal government and the private sector. And I made it the official policy of the United States government that there are only two genders, male and female. And the really easy one, this was the easiest one I had.
I banned men from competing in women's sports. You know, they always say that's an 8020 issue. No, that's about a 973 issue. I also proudly ban the use of puberty blockers and other chemical and surgical right? All these mutilations of our minor youth. I banned it all. I signed executive orders to abolish critical race theory and transgender insanity from our schools and from our military.
We fired the woke boards of visitors at our militarymies. We have great people running our militarymies now. And I've directed the reinstatement of patriots expelled from our military by the Biden vaccine mandate with full back pay. After years of missed targets, our military suddenly has the best recruiting numbers in 30 years.
Every branch is setting records. Don't think of that. Six months ago, you and I were reading that nobody wanted to join the military. Right now, we've just set a record of recruitment that's stuffed. We have a waiting list of people that want to go into our military. And we have a waiting list, including for police and firefighters because our country has spirit again.
We have spirit. Our country has great spirit again. Last month, I signed a historic executive order to begin the process of eliminating the federal department of education and send education back to Michigan. We're going to send it back to our states, right? We're going to send it back to our states to run.
I mean, how the hell bad can we do? We're like in last place. They do badly, you're going to do better. They're going to do great, though. I think they're going to do great. We're s I'm very proud of it. Linda McMahon, by the way, is doing a phenomenal job. And I signed an order making English the official language of the United States of America.
I ordered the release of all remaining files related to the assassinations of Presidents John F. Kennedy, Robert Kennedy, and Martin Luther King Jr. And they're all out there. And I made myself very unpopular in Mexico by renaming the Gulf of Mexico the Gulf of America. And we are restoring the name of a great president, William McKinley, to Mount McKinley in Alaska.
It's a very good president. And you Italians are going to love me because just yesterday I brought back Columbus Day in America, especially for Italian Americans who were so badly treated by its removal. I also signed an order to require proof of citizenship to vote in American elections. That was easy.
And the Democrats fought me in that. Think of it. Why would they want no voter ID? Because they want cheese. Why would they want to have no proof of citizenship? We don't want it. We trust everybody. No, they want to cheat. That's all they want to do. Think of that. No voter ID in Michigan. You must never allow rank choice voting to be here.
Never. We've done this all in 14 weeks. That's one. Remember that. 100 days. We've done all of the things that I named and a lot more. And we're counting. And it's going to be get it's going to be better. Wait till you see the results of some of the things that we're doing. In the coming weeks and months, we will pass the largest tax cuts in American history.
And that will include no tax on tips, no tax on social security, no tax on overtime. It's called the one big beautiful bill, and it will be the biggest bill ever passed in our country's history. It will include the biggest tax cuts, regulation cuts, military supremacy, and just about everything else.
We will cut more than $1 trillion in wasteful and unnecessary spending. And in the next fiscal year, it'll all be done. We're going to have something that you won't even believe. We will end inflation, slash prices. We've already ended inflation, raise wages, and give you the greatest economy in the history of the world. That's already happening with our tax bill.
The average family's take-home pay will be at least $5,000 more than it was just a couple of months ago. We will always protect Medicare and Social Security for our great seniors with no cuts. And we will defend Medicaid for those great people that are in need. House Republicans are working to invest more money in Medicaid than we spend today.
The only thing we're going to cut is the corruption and the crooks that take advantage of some of the illegal scheme. So, we want to preserve Medicaid for the most vulnerable for our kids, pregnant women, the poor, and disabled Americans. We will fully and permanently secure our border. We will make the largest ever investment in US military and build the Golden Do Missile Defense Shield that's going to all protect us so we live a long and beautiful life.
It's going to be made in Michigan and it's going to be made right here in the USA. And one hour ago, I just made a speech at Selfridge Air Force Air National Guard Base, announcing that we are saving it, keeping it open, including thousands of jobs with a brand new state-of-the-art F15s, which are coming to South.
and we will crush violent crime and give our police the support, protection, resources, and respect they so dearly deserve. I will defend religious liberty, and I will defend the right to keep and bear arms. We will celebrate the 250th anniversary of America's founding in 2026. And we will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag.
And one day soon, American astronauts will plant the flag on the planet Mars. That's going to happen very soon. Every single day of my administration will continue to live by the motto promises made. And you've seen it before, promises kept. From Marquette to Midland, from Meno to Sageno, and from Lancing to right here in Mcome County, we stand on the shoulders of red-blooded Michigan patriots.
What great people. I love you, Michigan. who laid the railroads, worked the factories, tilled the field, forged the steel, fought the battles, and won the victories that built the motor city and made this state into the pride of the America Midwest. And you know what? We're going to make it better than it ever was. It's already happening.
You see what's happening? Michigan is the state that gave us the assembly line, Mottown, Ford, General Motors, Chrysler, and put the world behind the wheel of an automobile. And under our leadership, we are making it greater every single day. And the automobile business in Michigan will soon, and it's going to happen really soon. It's already happening.
They're signing left and right because of my taxation and tariff policies, which are policies of common sense and genius, be bigger and stronger and better than ever before. It's going to get better than ever before. And it won't even be close. Companies will be pouring back into Michigan. It was hardworking patriots like you who built this country.
And on November 5th, 2024, it was hardworking patriots like you who saved our country. So, thanks to your help, your love, and your support, after 100 days back in the White House, America is a free, proud, and sovereign nation once more. And our magnificent destiny is closer than ever before. It's closer than ever before.
You have no idea how close it is. Our golden age has only just begun. We are one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. We will never give in. We will never give up. We will never back down. We will never ever surrender. We will fight, fight, fight. And we will win, win, win. Together, we will make America powerful again.
We will make America wealthy again. We will make America healthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. I love you, Michigan. I love you. Have a good time. Thank you. God bless you all. God bless you. Thank you. There's no need to feel down. I said,
"Young man, pick yourself off the ground." I said, "Young man, you're in a new town. There's no need." I said young
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pBOxQwRs9WY&t=264s
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
For more on the latest market moves, let's welcome in now Gargi Chowdery, Black Rockck, chief investment and portfolio strategist, America's Gargi, it is great to see you as always. Uh, you know, obviously a lot of uncertainty and uneasiness um with the tariffs and trade tensions, the policy uncertainty today.
Of course, the headlines all about Trump giving gy some relief. Gargy, um, you think the volatility, I know, is going to remain relatively elevated from here against that backdrop. How are you telling clients they should be thinking about committing their capital? Good afternoon and thank you for having me. It's great to be on.
And to your point, obviously I was listening to your show earlier and there is a little bit of relief in the markets both in the stocks as well as in the bond markets and that's welcome. We want to see that. But I think if we take a a little bit of a step back and you know we wrote about this in our outlook that we just published yesterday, our spring investment directions, but we just say that I think it's hard to believe that we're going to go back to sort of that, you know, call it 2020 to 2024 period where we had relatively muted
volatility. And right now with the headline risk still remaining somewhat high, we think more and more investors should think about adding some ways to protect against higher volatility and adding more diversifiers in their portfolio. So that's the thesis of how you should be adding ways in which you can reduce the volatility, reduce the beta and add diversifiers in your portfolio for the for the next couple of months.
So Gari, let's talk it's truly it's good to see you. Let's talk first then about that volatility muting piece of it. How does one do that in this environment? So you know one of the things that we were uh noticing was many clients were asking us if this is the period that they should be moving back to cash and we've obviously seen historic inflows into money market funds and we've obvious obviously seen cash on the sidelines call it 8 trillion or so.
Instead of that move, what we're telling investors, those investors that are a little bit more afraid about some of the price action that they saw between sort of earlier this year to call it April 12th or so, what we're telling them to do is take a more defensive stance and add to solutions like US minimum volatility, which again it allows you to stay invested in the markets, but just reduces the volatility experience, reduces the beta of your portfolio just a little bit.
So on the days that the market is down, you just lose a little bit less. And of course, you still stay in the markets. You're still invested in US equities. So that's one way. So consider minimum volatility strategies. But then secondly, one of the other questions that have been coming up a lot is the behavior of bonds, especially here, I'm talking about long bonds in particular that didn't quite give you the balance that you were hoping for.
um especially in the volatility in early April. So this is where we're telling investors number one continue to move your focus in fixed income to the front end of the market to the belly of the market and only on income generating securities in the fixed income market. Add in some inflation protection, some shorterdated inflation protected bond securities and then think about other diversifiers like in for example gold that has done very well in this sort of geopolitically uh fraught environment and also other alternatives like liquid
alts and market neutral strategies that don't have as much beta. Gar, I'm curious when you're meeting with those those very smart Black Rockck clients, what's top of mind for them right now? What are the big questions you seem to get the most? Yeah, so the big thing that's coming up is US versus the rest of the world as you can imagine and again listening to your shows I know you've been talking about that a lot.
um sort of you know what what to make of this international outperformance especially since you know we look at our own advisor portfolios and the data that we gather where we find that uh investors and advisers are quite underweight international exposures and you know rightfully so over the last decade or more they've done very well having that underweight and having an uh overweight to the US.
So one question that is coming up more and more is is this a change? Should we reallocate back to international markets? And we are addressing exactly that question in our outlook by talking about ways in which you should be diversified in the international markets. We certainly think you should have exposure to international markets.
And then the second question that's coming up quite a bit is uh is around sort of you know the diversification that we talked about. you know, if we're slowing down in growth, are we going into a recession? We don't quite know yet, but we know we're going to slow down in growth and maybe pick up a little bit in inflation.
Um, so in that environment, how should we think about portfolio hedging? So you've talked a little bit about that volatility muting, you've talked a little bit about hedging through that uh lens international, but I know that technology is also still a part of the strategy here because I guess on the one hand you want to minimize risk, but on the other hand, you still want to maximize returns.
So is is that is that the the the sort of thinking behind still turning to technology? Julie, absolutely. And I was about to get to that that while for some investors the volatility has been a little bit alarming and they have asked us about sort of looking to reduce volatility whether that be through minimum volatility strategies or option overlays.
Other investors are actually using this as an opportunity to add back to risk. And this is where we're telling them what we think is the most exciting opportunity here is to continue to add to those mega trends that we think will be with us for quarters and years. And AI is obviously top of mind and obviously big week with earnings and learning more about the capex plans of some of these large AI hyperscalers.
But recognizing that this theme is going to stay with us for a long time and now we're getting a chance to get back into these themes um at somewhat of a you sort of discounted level to where we were at the peak. Guardian, final question. You know, as investors look for opportunities right now overseas, there's been plenty of strategies who've come on this show and banging the table for Europe.
Um you also point out though Latin America. Why Latin America? Why emphasize there? Absolutely. And we do think that there are pockets of Europe that absolutely make sense and European financials and we're talking about European value a little bit that we think completely make sense and you know going active with international but the other often overlooked area to your point is Latam which isn't a region that many investors have specific allocations to and in this rewiring of sort of uh you know what's happening right now with geopolitical fragmentations and some of
the rewiring of supply chains that's going to happen of course as a result of tariffs. We think that their pockets of Latin America and Brazil and Mexico come to mind which we think might be the beneficiaries and could also benefit from having some cheaper valuations compared to the US and parts of the European market.
So, you know, think about some of the exposures especially as I said in Mexico and Brazil as another way of thinking about diversification in your portfolio. Gardi, good to see you. Thanks so much for joining us. Thank you for having
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3_GnABxDCok
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English (auto-generated)
Spotify is another big earnings mover today. You can see the shares boopping around after issuing a disappointing second quarter guidance. They were down as much as 8% pre-market. Looks like that action is continuing here. Our senior reporter Alexander Canal has the results. Hey Ally. Hey Maddie. Yeah, it's all about that guidance which we've heard from a lot of companies this earning season.
And this particular decline in the share price mostly focused on guidance from monthly active users otherwise known as MAUs. The company expects 689 million MAUs in the second quarter. That's below the 694 million analysts had expected. And these misses clouded pretty strong user growth that we saw in the first quarter.
We had premium subs rise 12% year-over-year. This was actually the strongest Q1 subscriber growth since 2020 and the second highest net addition for any quarter in the company's history. So strong start to the year, but an acknowledgement here from management that it will be bumpy, especially compared to 2024 when we had a lot of acceleration when it came to subscribers.
also an aggressive pace of margin expansion that's all supposed to slow in 2025. Daniel Ek talked about the uncertain macro picture on the earnings call, but he did say that Spotify is well positioned that the underlying data remains healthy. To that point, Wall Street analysts say that Spotify is really a defensive name, especially given the macro picture, similar to a company like Netflix.
It has a lot going for it when it comes to its various tiers. It's catering to the super fan. has audiobooks as podcasts and it's relatively cheap so it holds well in a recessionary environment. On the pricing side of things, Daniel E did say that pricing is a part of its strategy, but the company is very careful to enact price increases unless it's delivering value.
So, I don't know if we should expect any further price increases in the near term, but it's always a lever that the company has as it gets going. But despite the decline in shares today, we are still up about 100% over the past year. and Wall Street very bullish on this company. You know, it's in growth mode.
It's committed to this turnaround plan. It's finally making money. Um so really there's this there's this uh commentary on Wall Street that we don't need to worry about this report right now that the long-term uh future of this company is still well intact. So, it sounds like Wall Street is anticipating that despite the Q1 gross margin slowing and the year-over-year decline, Yeah.
that we saw that there's that opportunity for at least for them to pull price from consumers or extract more value there. They have those levers that they can pull. This is an uncertain backdrop. They're committing to the super fan experience, committing to the creator economy. They just said that they paid out $100 million to podcast publishers.
That includes those marquee names like Alex Cooper, Joe Rogan. So they have these other opportunities that they can lean on. And when you talk about the competitive landscape, Spotify is one of the top uh performers out there compared to, you know, your Amazon Music or your Apple Music. Brad, I know you're an Apple Music.
I'm a Spotify girl. Absolutely outing me. But but but people pay for these things, right? It's that it's, you know, recession proof in a lot of ways. And again, relatively cheap. I didn't know that you could have a a playlist created based on your ideal BPM. AIDJ on Spotify is great. Thank you guys so much, Ally. Thank you.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4o6Nza93qv8&t=13s
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English - CC1
English (auto-generated)
Welcome back, Friends to Morning Trade Live. So glad you're with me. It's time to go inside out on industrials. Joining me right now. Jonathan Secreta is with us VP Equity Research at Cfra research. Thank you so much for being with us Jonathan. We'll start with Honeywell, which is up about 4% helping to propel the Dow higher.
Up over 100 points for the Dow. Overall the Dow is up over 100 points. But Honeywell is contributing. What stood out in the report to you? Good morning Nicole. Thanks for having me. So very strong quarter. This is a pretty good day for Honeywell investors. What stood out is, as you said for Sophie Technologies, right. A beat and a raise is pretty remarkable in this current environment.
And that's what we got with Honeywell International a very strong beat to top line, over $200 million higher than the consensus A beat on earnings as well as a raise to the from the lower end of guidance, which is very remarkable, especially for industrials where we've seen a lot of reaffirming targets but not much in the way of raises.
So I'd say really just the amount of confidence. As far as management's tone on offsetting tariffs, I think we've really seen a transition in global supply chains in recent years as far as de-risking, to avoid some of the headaches we saw in 2021, 2022. We're seeing some of the fruits there being barred on supply chain management today in Honeywell's earnings print.
So is Honeywell a standout in the industrial sector or are there several. And we're going to get to caterpillar in a moment. But is the industrial sector a sector that could do well in light of the current situation, whether it's tariffs or economy? Even before tariffs were implemented, we had a pretty strong view at Cfra that really a lot of industrial firms would do quite well, is offsetting tariff impacts to the bottom line.
I mean, keep in mind that the trade war is really picked up in 2018. Then you had in 2021, 2022, global supply chain crisis spurred by the Covid pandemic. So for the past several years, there's been a shift to what's called local for local manufacturing, where manufacturers produce goods, where that end market consumer is, as well as dual sourcing.
So making sure they're not overly exposed to just one country as far as getting a proper components and materials, particularly China, we've seen in trade data lower reliance on China since 2018, as far as their importance as a trade partner. And a lot of this is also being fleshed out by industrial firms.
So I think really broadly, we've seen a lot of confidence from industrial firms as far as offsetting impacts from tariffs on the bottom line. Now, as far as demand, that's a different story. There's a lot less visibility there. That's not something that industrial firms can control. They can control how they adjust pricing and how they resource certain components and materials.
But as far as demand, we'll have to see how that shakes out later in the year. Obviously, if we were to enter a recession due to just a complete lack of trade deals, then that would really change the story here. But as of right now, it's a great start to the year for industrials and a lot of confidence as far as defending margins. Understood.
And where does caterpillar fit into the big picture and what do you expect to hear from this company which right now is in six months down 20% I should say three months. It's three months. It's down 20%. Right. Caterpillar's had certainly hit a rough patch. We've seen a lot of revisions lower on their guidance.
So in contrast to Honeywell we've we've had a buy in Honeywell. We like their portfolio transformation potential as far as unlocking value. Caterpillar we've had it at a hold. We're kind of neutral to bearish on the name. Really demand has just really failed to materialize for caterpillar. They've certainly kind of hit a more resistance as far as cyclical headwinds for the demand for large capital equipment.
Now we have actually rated a competitor or at least adjacent company United Rental as a strong buy because we think this higher interest rate environment really does lend to demand for rentals over the commitment of capital to purchase outright. So we do think there's been some market share loss there to rental firms as far as completing construction projects and kind of an uncertain macro environment coupled with higher interest rates.
So United Rentals URI is at 625 today. You mentioned you have a strong buy on it. What's your price target on your Re $825 right now. So a pretty good amount of upside from here. And really it's almost entirely exposed to US markets. So it doesn't really have to worry as much about demand destruction in terms of overseas.
So we think it's a good name as far as insulation from tariffs relatively speaking, as well as like I said, we believe there's some market share take right now as there's there is a growing preference towards rentals over outright purchases kind of taking away from from Caterpillar's growth. Very interesting. Okay.
Strong buy on United rentals the buy with a 245 target on Honeywell and a hold on caterpillar in 390 target. Jonathan great to see you from Cfra research. Jonathan, thanks for those names today. Good. Look at those industrials. And now we're going to trade it with Tom white host of Fast Market. Good morning to you.
Tom White you're watching Honeywell closely I mentioned what a winner was. We were saying it's unusual to see these companies with beat and a raise. How would you go about trading a name like Honeywell. Well the first thing you do is, you know, having a nice little pop here today. Still off about about 15% from those recent highs.
I don't think it's immune to maybe Paul's pullbacks in the overall market. And I think that's a concern for every stock. This earnings season. So even even though we're seeing the nice pop I think you want to be cautious on this one. And that's the way I look at looked at this from an example trade perspective, where I went out a few weeks out to the May 23rd weekly cycle.
So just about three and a half weeks to expiration and taking a bullish stance, but at the same time remaining conservative on this type of strategy. Selling a put vertical sell the 205 strike put out of the money to the downside, and then to make a risk to fine, because we all know that things can get a little bit hairy here during earnings season by the 195 strike put against it.
So a short $10 wide put vertical. You're going to collect roughly about a 250 credit on it. That's what you can make $250 per spread with $750 in risk, but takes her break even all the way down to 202 50 to the downside. That's about 4% below the current share price in Honeywell. So while it's still a bullish stance type of strategy, you're giving yourself that nice cushion to the downside before you get hurt on on a trade like this. All right.
And last but not least here you're trading caterpillar. And that's ahead of the report for tomorrow a name that has been beaten down. It's 20% off in three months. Some of your thoughts there. Yeah. In bear market territory going into this report the option market is pricing in about a plus or minus just over $15 move either way in the stock.
So about 5% either way. You know you have to wonder what they're going to say in the commentary is going to be around the tariffs, especially out of China, as they provide a lot of machinery over in Asia. So that's going to be a concern for this company. But maybe the pullback that we've seen in the stock from those all time highs in November is already taking place here. Right.
So I looked at a strategy. If you're bullish on this name this is the type of strategy that works out. And it takes advantage of volatility dispersion between the different options series. So going really short term positioning going out to the November 9th weekly cycle. So ten days to expiration. We're going to buy something at the money.
The 305 strike call that's got that higher Delta reacts more like the stock. And then then in the near term May 2nd weekly options that expire in just three days. We're going to sell the 320 strike call. So it sets up right with that one standard deviation move where you want the stock to go at or near 320 or just higher, right $15 wide bullish call diagonal.
You're paying roughly about an $8 debit for it. So almost half the width of that spread. So why is that. Well it's that vol dispersion I talked about where you're buying 48% implied volatility on aggregate in that May 9th weekly 305 strike calls and then selling about a 73% implied volatility in the May 2nd. Weekly options on that 320 strike.
So that vol dispersion or differential actually lowers the price input and that lowers your risk, which is about $800 per spread. Now, where do you start to profit on a strategy like this? About 310 to the upside on this one. So anything above that level is going to be profitability on this type of trade. Now if you're bearish on this one it's all about the strategy.
Maybe you want to buy a put diagonal instead using those same options series to take advantage of that dispersion. But this example is just a bullish trade where if you think this thing is going to go higher about that one standard deviation or more, this takes advantage of it. Understood. And as you mentioned in bear market territory.
So maybe it has a chance for that. Thank you
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zMxC5GjmYWQ
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English - CC1
English (auto-generated)
Schwab. Welcome back to Market on Close. It's time for Options Corner. Kevin Greene is here senior markets contributor on the network. Kevin let's talk about options flows in the S&P 500. And then we'll talk about some of the levels you're watching. Fill us in. Yeah I mean obviously you're seeing another decent day to the upside here. Up about 0.
6% on the S&P 500. You did see a fair amount of bullish activity happening once we had the interview on CNBC earlier. And that's really where you started seeing a nice little push to the upside here. Now we're hitting in a range or a level here around 5570. That's going to be your first area of major resistance here for today.
But there is a possibility that we could try to attempt the 5600 level. It just kind of depends on that market on close and balance order that we'll get here in about 17 minutes or so. But overall, it's obviously been really good positioning to the downside. If we have any type of failure after we have this kind of channel that's been developed here to the downside, looking at around 5525 overall, Caroline, the flows have been looking for the most part fairly bullish for the market.
But I think if you kind of look at a little bit of a longer time frame, there's just some items to kind of keep on the radar here. But for today, so far we continue to see some strong action here. It's been a little bit more of a rangebound market when you're kind of looking at the intraday trading, where support levels and resistance levels have been holding up very well.
So if you're an intraday trader, this is kind of the environment that you really thrive on, especially with the VIX that's still sitting at around 23 to 25. So overall this is actually looking pretty decent. If we do have a little bit of a pushback. The first area 5545 for the S&P 500 going into the close. And any failure below that once again 5525 is what I got on my radar here. Okay.
What about to the upside Kev. Yeah. To the upside just for the intraday. Once again 5570 is going to be your first area. And then you could look at around 5600. It is definitely possible that we actually can hit that for today. And if we actually do Caroline just to kind of like expand this out, it becomes a major short zone for this market.
So I would just kind of be a little bit cautious if we look at the E-mini S&P four year weekly chart. The reason why I kind of bring this up, we actually have and we've been looking at this for the last couple of weeks. Some anchored volume weighted average price levels here. Now this is just basically taking the overall volume those prices.
And then it makes a moving average if you will. And you can see that we were able to hold that moving average or the anchor VWAP that we call it on the October 2022 lows. That was pretty much the low that we've seen in this, let's call it maybe minor bear market pullback here, but I also have an anchored VWAP from the February 2025 highs here, and that has been an area of resistance ever since that we hit those highs.
Every time that we've touched it, we've rejected it. And for the E-mini S&P 500 we're pretty much right there. It's sitting at around 56 5622 right now. So you're sitting at around another 40 points to the upside where we might actually see some sellers actually getting into this market because it's going to be a fairly a key area of resistance.
The other reason why I kind of bring this up, you're seeing some actual interesting kind of dynamics when you're looking at the internals for the marketplace here. The first one that I really kind of focus on is that ten year, three month spread, that Treasury spread. And what we've actually seen over the last 3 to 4 trading sessions here is that spread is starting to actually get inverted again.
And we are actually in an inversion once again. And this is not really been the trend with equity markets moving higher. We've actually like to see that spread moving wider or basically moving higher. And we're not really seeing that right now. That's something that's a little bit on my radar. As a little bit of a cause for concern.
Do we start getting back into the bad news is actually good for equities because of the anticipation of fed rate cuts, which is kind of a dangerous little game that we're playing. And just kind of seeing what the yield market's doing right now compared to where we are seeing the E-mini S&P 500 coming up to resistance, I would just be very cautious about the extended move to the upside here.
Maybe a pullback might be on the horizon over the next couple of trading sessions. But this is something that has been, you know, just kind of hit my radar here today that I wanted to bring up for our viewers. Yeah. No certainly interesting there. And you know we've gotten used to some volatility. So I don't think that would be any huge surprise.
Anything else on your radar. We've got what 24 minutes before the close. Yeah. So let me just kind of expand on this. So the ten year three month spread is in an inversion or it's negative right now. That's something that you really don't want to see for a sustained bull market. The other factor here is the high yield credit spreads.
And then also kind of looking at that compared to the VIX, high yield credit spreads are actually moving to the upside VIX is moving lower. That's a correlation that we usually don't see that much. And if you're looking at high yield investment grade credit default swaps or CDs if you will, they've actually been inching up higher over the last actually since Friday.
And that is also something that usually does not correlate with equity markets moving higher 95% of the time CDs spreads themselves go lower, equity markets move higher and vice versa. So we also have a little bit of a disconnect there. Coming back to the fact that the volatility market compared to high yield credit credit spreads right now is disconnected.
Equity markets are looking good. They're rallying coming up to a potential area of resistance. But I think that you got to be very, very careful here at these particular levels because the dynamics are something that this type of environment, let's say it's a 10% of the time this actually happens and it sustains itself. Caroline.
Basically, what I'm saying, something actually has to correct either yield markets, have to correct, CDs have to correct or equity markets have to correct. All right. Well we'll see which
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XBoDmMb4heA&t=101s
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
Well, Amazon reporting first quarter earnings after the markets close on Thursday, but our next guest says there will be less focus on the first quarter results and more on the longer term outlook given those headwinds from tariffs. For more, we're bringing in Arun Sundam, senior equity research analyst at CFR research.
Arroun, it's good to see you. Before we get to the big earnings picture, I do want to ask you about some of those headlines today. The reporting that we were going to see the sort of tariff breakdown in some of uh Amazon's pricing, then Amazon saying no, we're not necessarily going to do that, but the White House pushing back.
I mean, what do you think is sort of the right way for Amazon and some other companies to to sort of approach this? Yeah. Yeah. Certainly an interesting day for Amazon. I think I think in my in my view I think the whole thing kind of got blown out of proportion um because of that that unconfirmed report that came out.
Then the White House came out with their statement and Amazon had to quickly respond back to it. Um you know I I don't think Amazon was ever considering breaking out tariffs or charges on their main e-commerce website. Um you know they did say they did say that too and they they said that these tariff charges were mainly for Amazon Hall which is essentially their timu sheen copycat website.
But um yeah, I I don't think big box retailers in general will will break out tariff search charges. One is because it's just a very complex calculation and it can it could be really messy. Um uh I think it's probably going to have more there probably more questions than answers if they did break out tariff search charges like why is this product uh have a higher tax versus this one? Um you know right now retailers are also trying to figure out who's going to you know absorb some of these tariff costs.
you know, some of it is going to no doubt be passed on to the consumer, but some of it's going to be absorbed by retailers, some of it's going to be absorbed by suppliers. So, how is that going to be calculated into the tariff search charge calculation? So, you know, I think it's I think it would be too messy.
It would probably hurt sales to be honest if they did break it out, too. So, um I don't think you'll see big box retailers um you know, take that route. So I'm just curious because it is, you know, it is the big question for Amazon or certainly a big question, you know, h how exactly when they're going to navigate this China tariff exposure.
I I did see the team over at Roth, they're telling their clients more than 30% of products sold on Amazon could be coming from China. And so I'm I'm just curious what will be Amazon's game plan? What is going to be Amazon's strategy to navigate that? Yeah. Yeah. I mean no doubt they have a significant portion of Chinese sellers, Chinese thirdparty sellers.
They don't they never disclose it um the exact percentage but it is known it is expected to be a sizable portion. Um the good thing is that I think you know ever since the first trade war back in 2018 2019 uh they did move significant portion of their of their sourcing or supplier base out of China into other other Asian markets like you know Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand, India places places like that.
Uh I think that's going to be beneficial too. um you know over the last five years or so Amazon's also um uh diversified their business in terms of um not just selling discretionary bigger ticket items but also more you know daily use consumables you know things like deodorant toothpaste paper towels things like that those products typically face less tariff risk as well so that's going to help them I think as well uh and third you know Amazon has a very large obviously a very large business a very a lot of many different suppliers they
also 60% of their e-commerce business is also thirdparty sellers and only 40% is their own um first party sales. So in in theory, you know, that 60% which which is the third party business, they Amazon generates a fee uh based off of fulfillment services and things like that.
So in theory, higher prices from third party sales could generate higher uh fee revenue for Amazon. So you know, I think there's a lot of, you know, pros and cons you have to weigh out before you determine whether you know tariffs are going to be fully bad or fully good. So it's a little bit it's a little bit complicated, I think, is the best way to say it. Yeah.
I mean I guess unless from the third party seller front unless people buy less stuff because it's more expensive. I mean and that goes for AWS as well. I want to ask about the implications there because you know if Amazon's clients if it's big enterprise clients are feeling the pinch from tariffs are they then going to not spend as much on AWS? Is that portion of their spending you know is that vulnerable in this case? Yeah.
So yeah, the way we kind of framed it is that you tariffs probably have a a bigger risk to Amazon's e-commerce business, but a broader macro slowdown because of tariffs have could have a negative implic implications to Amazon's AWS business as well as its advertising business. Um, so that's something that we're going to, you know, we'll we'll likely look to hear on the on the earnings call in a few days.
But yeah, we'll have to see. And I think right now the the commentary that we've been hearing from from Andy Jasse and even Amazon's shareholder letter that they released uh a few weeks ago sounded pretty upbeat in AWS. So I think expectations are high for AWS this year. Uh Amazon's also investing they're expected to invest over hundred billion dollars in capex this year.
Most of that it's going to be in in AWS and and AI investments. Um so we are pretty upbeat for AWS. because of that capex capex investments um there's a chance that AWS margins this year could be softer than than the previous year and I don't know if that's fully baked into to into the consensus estimates right now so that could be you know an area where we could see downside risk is that AWS margin line finally what about the advertising business you think uh think Amazon's able to gain advertising share yeah I mean because I mean if during a during
an economic slowdown you know you you want to allocate more of your advertising dollars to where people buy, you know, goods. And right now, there's, I think, only three retailers getting gaining the most amount of market share. It's it's Amazon, it's Walmart, and it's Costco.
And so, if you're an advertiser, you probably want to be advertising in one of those uh three three companies. Uh but at the same time is that many of Amazon's advertisers are third party sellers. So, if a lot of these Chinese third-party sellers are feeling uh the brunt of tariffs, uh then they could be advertising less and that could negatively impact Amazon's advertising business.
But at the same time also is that Amazon's also um uh just getting into to Prime Video ads. They they launched Prime Video ads last year. They're ramping it up this year. Uh and that's a you know increment that can be an incremental uh uh revenue stream for for Amazon. So again there's like a there's there's there's pluses and minuses in their in their ad business as well.
But and advertising is probably the most profitable business at Amazon, even more profitable than AWS. Um and and over the last few years that's been the fastest growing business for Amazon is is advertising. Um, so hopefully that continues to grow at a at a faster pace because that would only help overall overall margins at Amazon.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NVUkmL-6fPA
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
[Music] Earning season is kicking into high gear with several software stocks gearing up to report earnings in the coming weeks. The latest quarterly results are expected to shed light on momentum for the software space as tariff impacts and demand uncertainties hanging overhead. For more insight on future momentum, let's get to McQuary, head of US technology research, Steve Kanig.
Steve, it is great to see you. um maybe to start higher higher levels Steve you know I think when a lot of investors think about the software sector they think okay this is a more you know relatively tariff resistant sectors Steve but there are still risks walk us through what those are hi Josh thanks for having me on you know the uh software companies in the US um you know most of the midcap and large cap companies have significant exposure to large enterprises that um can make some pretty big purchase decisions. And
when you have policy uncertainty like we've had, those decisions can get deferred. They can get pushed out. You know, companies are reluctant to make big commitments. Uh you know, in the um you know, as far as smaller customers are concerned, um they tend to be their their buying habits, you know, it's smaller number of software receipts, etc.
They tend to be more linear with the economy. So if the economy uh degrades and we start to see you know recession or a slowdown uh the purchasing by the smaller companies also gets affected. So so those are basically the macro risks. Um and you're probably going to want to ask me more about it but I don't think we're going to see those risks come home to roost in a big way in Q1.
I think there's a lot of momentum there and I think mo most of the major software names in the US have left pretty ample room in their guidance to either raise their guide or not not cut their guide. Um so that that's kind of the big picture outlook we have here and valuations have certainly come in quite a bit and and are looking pretty attractive on a lot of a lot of names.
So that's interesting Steve. Even with that sort of caution, that unknown in terms of of the outlook, you think there's a good amount of negativity that's already priced into most of these. I think that it's true, Julie. Um but I also think there's a there's a certain um buying dynamic that you know even a lot of investors may not fully appreciate even institutional investors which is um software companies have a lot of mechanisms to maintain their momentum in the short term e even in the face of deteriorating conditions. That's
that's always been true even in the 20 years that I've been on the sales side covering software. Um, you know, a lot of these sales cycles are very long and the the sales get, you know, pretty close to being concluded and the projects are green lit and they they may actually the decision may have been made in calendar Q4, but the software um gets turned on, you know, the cloud software gets turned on in Q1 and and bookings registers in Q1 and that revenue starts flowing and sometimes it can start flowing, you know, well after the
decisions are So, so that means there's there's kind of a lag time, if you will, uh, in a lot of this, how this decision-m affects revenue. Uh, and I and I think what we already saw from Service Now and SAP were some pretty good Q1 reports um that uh that set the tone for the space. And I think a lot of other software companies are going to be hesitant to start, you know, sounding economic alarms, you know, and and a lot of them have room to um if not to raise their guidance to not cut their guidance.
So I think Q1 will be fine. The question mark's going to be more Q2, Q3. Having said that, so some some questions ahead, Steve, I know there are names in your coverage universe you like. I want to get to some of those. Why in your you know, you're telling your clients where the opportunities are.
Autodesk, you say that's an opportunity. How come? Yeah. Well, a couple things going on there. Um, number one, they just settled with the activist investor who was uh fighting with them. Starboard value. Starboard is going to um has has um suggested and Autodesk has accepted two independent directors on its board. Autotodesk has already been focused more so than we've seen in past years on improving their margins.
And we think there's significant room to make the business more efficient to continue to improve margins and I I think you know the uh the autoes management will will continue to pursue margin growth as they have been uh but but even perhaps more aggressively and I think one thing that enables them to do so is the fact that this year they are transitioning to a new transaction model where they're transacting directly with customers.
resellers are still there to provide service but Autodesk is going to gain much more visibility into the end buyers. These are um these are construction firms, architects, uh uh design firms that uh now Autodesk will have that visibility that enables them to know the customer better to cross-ell and to sell more efficiently.
So I think that's important for Autodesk. I think the other thing that's going on is they're being successful pushing into providing software for downstream construction activities which is largely a green field market. Uh and Autodesk is one of the one of the pioneers in this marketplace and that's that's all upside we think going forward in terms of their uh adding to their revenue base.
Steve, I want to get your thoughts on another name that you like which is HubSpot. Those shares about down about 12% or so uh thus far this year and they're coming out with their earnings on May 8th. So, do you think that's going to be a catalyst potentially for the name? Yes, I think I think potentially it can be, Julie. Uh, we like HubSpot.
We're outperform rated on HubSpot as well as Autodesk. Um, and with HubSpot, you know, there's a there's a couple reasons we like this stock. One is uh it all comes down to fundamentals, but one is that they're they're growing um you know probably this year in the high teens and we think that's a very sustainable growth rate as they um broaden their their footprint in the various pillars of customer relationship management from marketing to service to sales.
Uh and so that's that kind of growth opportunity presents the the ability to sustain this this uh high teams revenue growth. I also think there's lots of room for margin expansion as this company grows and matures and and benefits from operating leverage. Lastly, we think this year uh their fiscal 25 which ends in December uh that there's uh ample opportunity for revenue outperformance relative to the guidance that's been put out there.
When we look at the numbers that um we think even in a in an environment as long as we don't, you know, go into, you know, some kind of very bad recession, I I think there's plenty of room for revenue upside this year. Steve, appreciate your time and those picks. Thank you. Thank you, Josh. Thank you, Julia. Great to be here.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=at-LD-XnxwU&pp=0gcJCYQJAYcqIYzv
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
[Music] President Trump's first 100 days in office has been volatile to say the least. We're going to compare the market's performance since he was inaugurated to what the market expected after the election. I'm Jared Blickery, host of Stocks in Translation. And to begin with today, we're going to take a look at how large cap S&P 500 sectors, all 11 of them, have performed from November 5th of last year through January 17th, which was the last day of trading before the inauguration.
And we have that chart right here. It goes from materials all the way on the left, which was down a bit over that period, all the way to consumer discretionary, which was the biggest gainer. Consumer discretionary houses Amazon and also Tesla. Tesla saw that huge jump right after the inauguration and it looked like Jeff Bezos was making friendly with uh President Trump and then things reversed a bit.
But before I move on, I want to show you what was really popping in those early days after the election. Those were those market expectations. So financials were a big runner up there to consumer discretionary that was based on the deregulation push that uh President Trump was uh part of his agenda there. We also saw energy that was the uh another trade that was kind of a pillar of his first administration.
And then what wasn't working those early days real estate, consumer staples, and healthc care, those are all defensive sectors, but also materials, a cyclical sector. That was kind of an outlier. So an interesting case, but I do want to move on to what's actually happened since the inauguration. And I have two little data points on each of these sectors to help us decode that.
So the red dot, focus on that first. That was the inauguration to the April 8th market low and that was about 80 calendar calendar days or so. So not the full 100 about 3 fifths or four fifths of that. But you can see the worst off was tech. Tech just got absolutely battered. Consumer discretionary as well.
That's that Amazon and Tesla trade. Even energy reversed hard to the downside. And then a lot of these other cyclical uh trades kicked in to the downside as well. industrials, materials stayed negative and also some others. Uh, but I do want to kind of bring it to the present here. I'll do that in a second and just tell you the white bar is where we are now.
So, we've seen a lot of these losses mitigated and we can see that in consumer discretionary. We had a big rally by Amazon and Tesla. We've seen tech come roaring back and we'll take a look at that in a second. Industrials, energy, materials. So, we've made some significant gains off the lows. So now we're going to take a look at what's happening since the inauguration in real time on the Wi-Fi interactive here.
And this is the heat map. This is how things are shaking out. Only consumer staples is in the green during this period. That's a pretty defensive sector. And if you look at the runners up, that would be utilities, real estate, and XLV, which is healthcare. Those are all very defensive sectors.
So that's not the that's not the greatest setup for a bull run. Um, by the way, the worst off still consumer discretionary and also energy to the downside, but and but and but we've made some tremendous gains off of those lows that we saw uh in the recent past. And at the number one spot is tech.
So, it's nice to see that early leader in the bull trade, the AI trade. Tech kind of resuming its perhaps rightful place in this bull market, which it still is. We haven't experienced that 20% draw down just yet. tech number one, consumer discretionary number two, the Amazon Tesla trade and then materials, even materials has come back. Industrials, XLI there.
So, we've seen cyclicals come running back and then what has been the lagard? Everything's in the green, but we do have uh some some uh sectors that are lagging. XLV is the biggest. That's healthcare, then staples, then energy, then utilities. Those are all very defensive sectors for the most part. And uh you put it all together, we have the makings of a potential bull run here.
Uh I don't want to get too far ahead of ourselves because we are looking for that next catalyst. So we'll have to see how this one pans out. Tune in to Stocks and Translation for more market decoding deep dives. New episodes on Tuesdays and Thursdays on Yahoo Finance's website or wherever you find your
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8HFZtGJ8U6M&t=24s
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
No transcript is available for this video... 😢
Are you looking to transcribe your own video? If so, you can use the Glasp Audio Transcriber to easily transcribe and summarize your audio and video files.
Get transcription and .srt file
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8qkHil1CUF4&t=20s
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English (auto-generated)
SoFi just dropped their Q1 earnings report and the stock hit its highest price in the last two months. Just three weeks ago, I said that SoFi is a no-brainer stock to buy when SoFi dropped under $10 and now the stock is up more than 40% since then. But SoFi stock has been dropping since the market opened after releasing their financials.
So in this video, I will try to explain what is going on with SoFi as I look through the earnings report. But the most important question now is SoFi a good stock to buy right now. Before we get into the video, if you find any value in this, can I ask you to smash the like button? Literally costs nothing, but it helps the channel out so much.
I'm aiming to get 500 likes on this video. Help me achieve that goal. For anyone that's new, make sure to subscribe so you don't miss out on any new content like this. I'm not a financial adviser and this is not financial advice. So, always do your own due diligence. Now, let's get straight into it. Right. So first of all, we all know what SoFi is and what they do.
But first, let's look at what management had given as guidance for Q1. At the end of 2024, SoFi had recorded their best numbers to date. The new member additions and new product additions had reached all-time highs with a compound annual growth rate of 53% and 55% respectively. Lending products and financial services products had all skyrocketed.
Soulfi's adjusted net revenue and adjusted IBIDA had increased significantly with the company recording its first full year of profitability with an adjusted EPS of 15. So the company had closed out 2024 with its best year financially and with fantastic growth metrics. They had absolutely smashed the 2024 guidance. However, since releasing these financials back in January, a lot of things have happened in the world and in the US specifically, which has fueled a lot of macroeconomical concerns.
Now, for Q1 2025 guidance, SoFi had guided for adjusted net revenue of between 725 and 745 million, between 175 and 185 with net income between 30 and 40 and diluted EPS of 3 cents. Now, keep these figures in mind for a moment because as I said back in January, these were more likely going to be lowballed numbers as usual.
I've said repeatedly over the past 3 months that I expected far better than just 3 cents EPS for Q1. Now, SoFi has dropped their latest earnings report and the figures have not disappointed. Looking at the Q1 highlights, SoFi have recorded adjusted net revenue of 771. This is a 33% year-over-year increase and it's not only the fastest growth in the past five quarters, but this is significantly above the Q1 guidance which was between 725 and 745 as we've seen a moment ago.
Adjusted Ibida of 210 million is again massively above the previous guidance and their net income of 71 is more than double the midpoint of their guidance and the EPS of 6 cents is actually 100% above the January guidance of 3 cents. So this is an incredible achievement and not even the most bullish of investors could have thought was going to happen this quarter.
So's feebased revenue of 315 million represents a 67% year-over-year growth. Financial services and tech platform revenue also grew 66% while their tangible book value has grown to over 5 billion which is growth of $946 million. Another important metric here that nobody really expected was the personal loan 90-day delinquencies actually declined by 9.2.
Now, on top of the financial metrics, SoFi's new member additions has grown to 10.9 million, an increase of 802,000 new members, which is the single best quarterly increase to date. New product additions has also grown to 15.91 million, an increase of 1.18 million, which again is the single best quarterly increase that SoFi has ever produced.
These are signs that SoFi is becoming a juggernaut that is showing no signs of slowing down. Adjusted net revenue of 771 and adjusted IBIDA of 210 are again far far above anything that we've seen in previous quarters. But there is a further breakdown of revenue here too. Adjusted net revenue for the tech platform and financial services for Q1 is 407 million.
If this is annualized without any quarter overquarter increases, which we are actually sure to have, then this would equate to 1.6 billion, which is far above last year's 1.2 billion. But feebased revenue is increasing, coming in at 315 million for Q1. Now we can see here on the right hand side of the screen the feebased revenue mix that shows that fee based revenue is increasing as a percentage of total revenue each quarter.
41% of revenue now is feebased revenue which is in line with how the company is shifting its focus over the past year. The adjusted eBay margin is improving each year and while Q1 has recorded 27% management are targeting 30%. Now breaking this down even further, financial services has driven a 2x net revenue growth on the year while nearly doubling contribution margin.
Revenue going from 151 up to 303 and the contribution margin going from 25% up to 49%. These are incredible figures. While the lending segment has actually dropped a little from Q4 down to 413 million, this is still a massive 27% year-over-year growth. And now the big one, lending originations.
Again, for personal loans, this is a massive increase on Q1 2024. But the key one here is the loan platform business originations. This is over 1.5 billion in Q1 compared with 2.1 billion in the whole of 2024. If I remember correctly, this was about 1 billion or maybe 1.1 billion in Q4. So this is a massive increase which overall has increased the personal loans to over 5.5 billion in Q1 alone.
Student loans comes in in a new high of 1.19 and home loan originations is more than four times its 2023 figures. Since acquiring a bank license back in 2022, SoFi has grown deposits to $27 billion and is shifting towards more deposit funding, which has reduced the funding expense by an estimated half a billion per year.
And we can see that clearly here. In 2022, deposit funding accounted for 57% while now in Q12025, it accounts for 90% of the funding base. Now while a lot of people were worried about guidance for the year, especially in the current economic climate, there were concerns that SoFi might even cut guidance.
Management have actually increased guidance for the year and issued Q2 guidance. Now adjusted net revenue has come in this quarter at 771, but management are guiding for between 785 and 805 next quarter. Adjusted Ebida of between 200 and 210 and EPS guidance between 5 and 6 cents. Well, they have increased the fullear EPS guidance up to 27 to 28 cents, which is only a small increase of about 1 cent.
But what I will say about this is that this should be easily achievable. If anything, once again, SoFi are lowballing our expectations. Remember that the expectation for this quarter was only 3 cents and some analysts were expecting even less, but SoFi have gone and doubled this recording EPS of 6 cent. I expect them to easily do better than 6 cents next quarter.
But guys, this is what I believe. These are just my thoughts. This is not financial advice and I'm not a financial adviser. I would be hoping for about 8 cents next quarter as long as growth remains strong and I fully expect the share price will begin to reflect this, but I would love to hear your thoughts and what you are expecting in the coming quarters.
Now, just a reminder, when SoFi released their Q3 earnings report back at the end of October last year, the stock immediately dropped just like what we've seen today. But over the next two months, the stock nearly doubled. If I remember correctly, the stock dropped down from like $150 down to under $10 and then rallied up to over $18 in January.
So, let me know your thoughts in the comments below. Don't forget to like and subscribe. I hope you have a great week and I'll catch you in the
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zh9XjIk59Qk&t=17s
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English (auto-generated)
[Music] Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. We are going a bit earlier today because we've got SoFi that has just reported their earnings and we got a lot to talk about with SoFi. You got PayPal, you got GM, you got Fizer, you got Spotify. Um, you got a lot you got a lot of companies that are reporting right now.
So, we're going to get right into it. Uh, SoFi right here. Again, we'll get into the numbers. Before we get into the numbers, though, we got Nodto live right now. We got Nodto live right now. Let's get into it right here and then we will get into everything else that we got going on. Co Anthony Noto, it's great to see you.
I don't know if we've actually had the opportunity to talk in quite a while, but let's talk about these earnings. Let's talk about how you see this economy and what it means for your business. Yeah, we're really excited about the quarter. 2025 is off to a tremendous start. We grew revenue 33% year-over-year. That's an acceleration.
It's our fastest growth in five quarters to $771 million. It's really driven by great product innovation, strong branding leading to member growth of 34% year-over-year. It was the largest quarter we had in member ads at 800,000 and a 35% growth in products. So, our Cross Buy is really working at 32% of the products coming from Crossby.
Really strong profitability. Our EBA is up 46% um to $210 million also record and earnings were very strong. Um we feel like we're incredibly well positioned competitively. We're stepping on the gas. We're going to accelerate our rate of innovation, launch more products sooner, re-enter the crypto category, um, and really making sure we're staying in front of everyone else in our leadership position.
I love our competitive position and think right now with the with the environment we're in that we're seeing really strong demand from our members. We want to meet that demand. Let's talk about the lending business and then let's talk about the crypto business because I think um there's a lot of folks who are fascinated by both.
Why don't we hit crypto first? Where are you in that journey at this point? Well, the first thing I'd say is the regulatory environment is definitely evolving and it's going to allow us to re-enter being able to offer crypto coins in our invest product, the ability to buy, sell or hold cryptocurrency and we hope to be able to do that over the next 6 months or so.
Um, in our earnings call, we'll talk about the fact that over the next 6 to 24 months, we want to enter cryptocurrency and blockchain activities in a much broader and more significant way. Again, it's dependent on the involving regulatory environment, but so far that environment has been really positive. We want to be able to offer blockchain products and crypto products across every area that we're currently in.
So across lending, across paying, across uh investing uh and as well as protecting. We think it's a technology uh more than anything else. And we can use it to allow people to pay easier at a lower cost to pay faster and over time be able to capture some of the opportunity by providing infrastructure services to third parties via our technology platform.
So it really will cut across every element of our business. What is the what is the blockchain business and and crypto business in the lending space ultimately look like to you? Again, it's going to be subject to the regulatory environment. So, I just have to caveat that. But today, we provide margin loans in our investments where you can borrow money against your securities, against your assets.
We could do the same thing with cryptocurrency. If we custody the cryptocurrency, we can provide a secured loan against that currency. Um, again, a lower cost of of lending for our members just like margin loans are um, but an asset that they can borrow against just as they do their home or securities in our in their invest account. Right.
So, there's two things going on that I I know some investors may have some confusion about. So, there's there seems to be an effort at one level to move away from the sort of classic lending business to focus more on fee revenue. At the same time, there's been a huge growth in the lending or loan platform business.
And so can you explain the distinction for those who who are sort of trying to follow this company? Sure. Um the first thing is to understand our mission and our mission is to help people reach financial independence to realize their ambitions which means they get to the point that they have enough money to live their dreams, their American dream, have the size family they want, the size home they want, the career they want and live where they want and retire when they want.
In order to do that, we have to be there for everyone of their major financial decisions in their lives and the days in between. Which mean we really have to be across everything they do. borrow, save, spend, invest, and protect. So, we do have four great loans. We try to provide the fastest place to apply and the lowest interest rates.
Um, we have more demand for our loans than we can fulfill ourselves. So, some portion we'll do ourselves and some portion we'll do on behalf of third party. So, the loan platform business is really a feebased business where we leverage our origination platform, our marketing platform, our servicing platform to underwrite loans for other people like Blue Island Fortress.
Well, that's what I was say. You did this explain though because I don't I don't know if everyone knows you did this deal with Blue Owl which is one of the big credit providers in the country for worth about five$5 billion right how does that work yeah the way it works is they contract with us for a specific type of credit they want underwritten we go out and generate demand for that underlying loan we then fulfill that loan and they take the loan away from us within a couple of days so it's very capital light we don't retain
any credit risk and we don't retain any capital requirements u it's something that we're doing on their behalf that we would not otherwise do for ourselves either because we don't want that level of volume or that credit box. We actually turn down in a year over a hundred billion dollars of loan volume. We only fulfill about $20 billion ourselves.
So that over hundred billion dollars of loan volume other people would like to have. We focus on a high-end customer that's 680 and higher. Average FICO score around 750, average income around $150,000. But there are many of other people that have the need to invest in assets at a lower credit spectrum. and we're helping them do that in addition to some volume in our credit box that's above and beyond the volume we want to do.
So, it's a high margin revenue stream. It's feebased and it and it doesn't retain credit. What are you seeing in terms of the strength of the consumer? And I ask because there was a piece I think in the Wall Street Journal just this week, right? Uh about so many people using buy now pay later and and just putting more and more things on their credit card.
You're starting to see a credit build. There was a lending tree survey finding Americans are using more of these services than ever before. just for groceries and things. Anthony, sure. We're watching all the macroeconomic factors the way we would any other time of the uh cycle to make sure we have our early warning if there are problems.
So far, we've not seen any issues with credit. In fact, our credit performance continues to improve. Our del 90-day delinquencies improved again for the fifth quarter uh since last year in a row. We've also seen uh lower than expected net charge offs and an improvement there as well. So, the underlying credits doing well and the demand for loans are very strong.
We're also seeing strong spending in our SoFi money business. Uh we're annualized at about $14 billion of debit spending now. Um and it's growing faster than our underlying uh member growth there, which is about 46% growth. And our money product and spending is growing even faster. Deposits are growing faster as well at 52%.
And then in our invest business where you can buy, sell single stocks or fractional shares, IPOs, alternative assets, we had our strongest engagement quarter ever, even stronger than when we launched crypto or IPOs or alternative assets. um and saw an acceleration in our member growth there up 21% and we expect that acceleration to continue throughout the rest of the year.
So we guided the full year up in addition to beating we also guided second quarter above consensus. We feel great about where the business is. We're looking for all the data points everyone else is talking about but so far things have been pretty strong. Anthony, do you think that's because it's a reflection of your your members, a reflection of your clientele, or do you think that maybe some of those stories are being exaggerated about people um needing to borrow to pay for the groceries? I I think it's a little bit of both.
We definitely have a higherend customer, and the viewers should understand that we're going after a high income customer, $150,000 income or higher, high credit, 680 or higher. So, that's in our loan business, but our money business goes after everyone. um and our vest business goes after everyone. So, it is a reflection of the broader economy.
I do think people are looking for reasons not to be uh bullish here because of the uncertainty and believe me, I know how to be as bearish as anybody. And right now, we're not seeing the the changes. What would scare me is if we had uh unemployment get up into the high five or 6% range. We're not anywhere close to that today. Um but in an environment where we have declining rates, we're going to do incredibly well.
We're going to see a lot more home refinancing. We're going to see refinancing of student loans. And we're also going to see uh continued improvement in credit in that environment as long as we don't go into a deep recession or have some type of liquidity dislocation. A deep recession, liquidity dislocation would be really bad.
But right now, it seems like things are being managed pretty well. Anthony, great to see you, sir. Hope to see you in person soon. Congratulations on the results and a lot more to come. Thank you. All right, that was SoFi. Uh, Hems is going nuclear right now with a partnership with Novo Nordisk to expand affordable healthcare.
This will be a shock to a lot of you, but I did buy him yesterday at 2858. Uh, I was kind of peer pressured by a friend. So, I bought 100 shares at 2858. Uh, it's up 16%. I know HIMS is very volatile. It goes up, it goes down. I mean, this is one of the most volatile stocks ever in terms of partnerships, announcements, and the overall GLP part of the business.
But 3310 right now in the pre-market's up 16%. So, HIMS right here doing very well uh in the pre-markets. We'll see how that momentum continues to shake out. So, is up about 6% almost at 14. So, you just heard Nod right there sounded relatively bullish and we'll talk about Spotify and GM. Spotify really got hit badly by EPS.
I think there's a reason for that. And so we'll go through Spotify in a second, but Spotify is down about 8%. Um, was really the opposite of a Netflix type of quarter. 8.9% down here on Spotify. But SoFi getting some love right here, 1 cent away from 14. I mean, it looks like it's going to crack it in the pre-markets.
Up about 6% basically a triple beat and raise. And the question is now going to be um, does the market respect it? Does the market respected? So, what were the results on SoFi? Let's get started right here with the topline metrics. Uh, 6 cents versus three expected. So, you got a 50 50% beat on EPS. 772 million versus 739 million. That's about a 30 million beat on revenue. 800,000 new members.
Now, revenue growth, financial services up 100%. That's great. Lending up 25% year-over-year. That's great. The tech platform still not really growing. Up 10% year-over-year. is what most people need to get the momentum or most people think Sofi needs to get the momentum in terms of getting a hybrid tech multiple and that you know they're just not putting up the growth to see that yet but other parts of the business are growing and they're beating all the expectations by a hefty margin.
So a lot of people are thinking all right even if the tech platform is not uh solidifying it as a tech company should they be able to get the multiple for putting up techike growth especially in the other parts of the business. Anthony noticed said, "We are off to a tremendous start in 2025.
In Q1, we deliver durable growth and strong results driven by relentless focus on product innovation and brand building." He also said at the end of that interview uh and they increased guidance by 85 million for fiscal year 25 and EPS they increased by 2 cents. So they increased guidance again. He said in that interview that he's not bearish at all in terms of the economy and the macro environment.
The only way he would get bearish is if unemployment got up to the high 5% range. So right here above 14 now up 6.9% on the day. Hims, goodness gracious, dude. This thing is up 20%. So him's not having a bad day uh 3470 uh on this Novo Nordis partnership but but but SoFi right here if NTO is not feeling that bearish about the macro climate and the macro environment.
I mean, you got to imagine that they think that April has been a good month for them in terms of execution. And if they can have a good May and June, then Q2 should be a strong month as well or strong quarter as well, which uh I would imagine would be theoretically good for SoFi's stock. 1410 right here.
When we open in the markets or when we open at 9:30, either SoFi is going to dump or SoFi is going to build on this momentum. And if it builds on this momentum, I think either we hold the 7% or we try to inch up a little bit higher. If it tanks, it would be from people selling into the strength. Volume's already about a million shares in the pre-market.
So, we're gonna have to see how this plays out. Basent is speaking at 8:30, which is going to be a little bit challenging because uh SoFi has a call at 8:00 p.m. or sorry, 8 a.m. So, I don't know. Do we switch to Bent at 8:30? Do we keep listening to SoFi? Do I just put updates in the chat about what Bent is saying? Because whatever he says is probably going to have an effect on SoFi.
There's a world in which they announced their first trade partner today. That's why I think he's doing a press briefing. Maybe it's India, maybe it's not. Who knows? But we're gonna have to see what Bassen says at 8:30 and then keep going from there. Nate, what's up? Thank you for being here. Uh Nate is the reason the reason he's bragging right here and saying, "Hey, Mitt, you're welcome.
" is because he is the reason I bought uh HIMS yesterday. He's been begging me to buy this freaking stock for I would say about a year now. And yesterday, just to get him to like stop asking, I was like, "You know what? Fine. I'm gonna buy this thing. Uh, but I'm also no stranger to its volatility. I mean, like, this thing goes up and down like crazy.
And so, do I expect it? This was the buy order yesterday. Do I expect it to be up 21%? I mean, maybe. But the last time they announced a freaking partnership with Eli Liy, Eli Liy came out and said, "We don't even know who Hims is." They definitively denied it. I don't think that's going to happen this time because that was a rumor last time.
This time, Hims is actually putting up their own partnership. But, uh, yeah. Thanks, Nate. I'm up like 700 bucks in a day because of you. Kind of want to take some profits here. I'm not going to lie. 700 bucks is a lot of money. And I I don't know, dude. 23% feels a bit much for a simple partnership.
It just feels like people are buying in. But whatever. We're going to hold it. Yeah. Yeah. Look, even even he knows it'll be down 25% tomorrow, dude. Oh my gosh, dude. I I really want to sell this. I I I don't I mean, this thing is so volatile. I feel like taking profits here makes sense, but screw it. We're in this now. So, we're in this.
Let's let's just stay in. Uh, okay. So, SoFi, let's go deeper into their numbers right here. Up about 6.82%. Um, and then we'll get into some of the other companies that reported. So, uh, the biggest thing again on SoFi is that they're not growing the tech platform, and that's what I think people continue to be scared about.
Um, but everything else seems to be going pretty nicely. like it's not like it's a it's a scary level of of lack of growth in in other parts of the business. So, um even margins are at 27%. That's up quarter over quarter by about 1%. Not bad. You have financial services at 303 million which is up more than 100% year-over-year, which is nice.
The contribution margin on that is 49%. That's up from 31% uh a year ago, which is also pretty damn good. Uh and then you've got their overall member growth which was at 800,000 which was incredible as well. Now the tech platform growth I think uh yeah this this right here is what people are annoyed about.
So the net revenue is at 103 million. That's up 10% year-over-year. Contribution margin is actually down year-over-year by about 3%. It's at 30%. Um they get about 31 million off the tech platform versus uh 33 a year ago. So, you know, you got you got the tech. This slide right here is the reason I think the street is not giving it the type of multiple that a pounder gets or that a Robin Hood gets.
It's just not really that sort of juicy SAS reoccurring revenue business. But the other parts of the business are strong. Now, the loan platform again is, as Not said, a capital risk freeway or an asset risk-free way of of of not holding the loans on their balance sheet and still being able to make revenue off those loans.
He even said, "We get a hundred billion dollars of loan demand, but we are only able to accept 20 billion of it." So the other 80 billion, they see there's a massive opportunity to be able to put that on to other people and still be able to generate um revenue from it. But again, you know, I kind of agree with Steve on that question.
That's just not an exciting business that necessarily I think screams, hey, we're a tech platform. It's a it's a great business. It's an awesome thing and it should increase their their their overall growth, but it's not like, oh my gosh, this is like, you know, the next big thing. It's not or at least as of now I don't see it as the AIP for SoFi but maybe that's up to not to really communicate that it can be at the end of the day they got to grow this tech platform or they got to have another way to have a broader narrative on the thesis of the company right now
and I think uh if every company that's in tech has a narrative that's associated to the qualitative aspect of its valuation along with the tech growth to support that qualitative aspect so far right here is lacking a bit of that narrative and that story that AWS of fintech theoretically was that story, but that's not there.
So, um, yeah, I mean, look, it was a good quarter. It was not a bad quarter. It was just not the quarter that I think might be narrative changing, but let's wait for the call. We're going to see what the call ends up saying. So, right here, up 4.9%. Dude, why is him up 30 freaking%. My goodness, it's really making me want to sell, bro. Like 30% in a day.
I'll take that. That's a nice little 820 bucks. But I feel like if I'm gonna own him, I should just be used to the volatility at this point and just hold the damn thing. So yeah, I don't think Nate's selling. Are any of you guys selling Hims? Are you selling this thing? Goodness gracious, dude.
One thing I will say for him, as I've been looking a little bit more at the numbers, uh cuz I bought it last night, so I was like, you know, let me look at the numbers. It's cheap. It is definitely freaking cheap. I mean, I can't deny compared to other stocks when you look at their valuation, their growth, market cap of six billion kind of feels like a joke.
The only way you would uh discount that market cap if is if you think they don't have a moat, which is a fair bare case, but like I don't know. I I think the you know, at the end of the day, investors pay for growth. And uh the way I think you establish a moat is you keep growing, right? Because if you can keep growing, no one can say you don't have a moat because you're growing, which means you are beating the competition.
And the whole point of emote is that you can do something other people can't do or you can just do it way better than other people can do it. And HIMS is putting up the growth even without GLP. Like this is not a GLP story. This is that's just like a nice little catalyst to the overall narrative, but HIMS is definitely a definition of a stock that has a bunch of narratives.
It might not be the most exciting narrative to people. But uh in regards to the overall healthcare space, there is a narrative right there. 3720 on HIMS in the pre-market so right here up 5.23%. Spotify down 7.94%. Spotify did not do the best. We'll talk more about Spotify. Let me get uh some updates on the HIMS partnership.
I think they released a press release uh with Novo Nordisk as their partner. So, let's see what they said. Um yes, here it is. Okay. So, let's read from this. Let's read from this. And yeah, Bay Ray is a good point. Their short float is at 30%. So, uh, squeezing can be very possible when it comes to any piece of good news that gets the shorts to cover, which also could get us up 30%. Okay.
Novo, Nordisk, and HIMS today announced a long-term collaboration designed to make proven obesity care and treatments more accessible, more affordable, and more connected for millions of Americans. As a first step, Americans can now access NGOare pharmacy directly through the HIMS and HHS platform with a bundled offering to all those to all of the doses of strengths of the GOI and HIMS membership which includes access to 247 care.
The companies are also developing a roadmap that combines Novo Nordisk innovative treatments with HIMS and hers ability to scale access to quality care. Uh Dunham says we're excited to work with Novo, a company known for breakthrough innovation in clinical medicine and strong portfolio of medications. Bringing our teams together and continuing to explore our shared commitment and focus on delivering the future of healthcare has been inspiring.
We share a vision of what is consumer- centered healthcare looks like and this is just the first step towards delivering that future future. Novver says we are pleased that Hims and hers is making this offering available to the people that are living with obesity. Beyond this initial collaboration, the companies are developing a roadmap that combines Novo Nordisk's innovative medications with HIMS's ability to deliver access to quality care at scale.
So basically, HIMS is the distribution. Novo has the actual um pharmaceuticals with the goal of improving long-term outcomes for people living with chronic disease and doing that more affordably. Yeah, it makes sense. It makes sense. I mean, this is kind of a no-brainer in terms of them partnering together.
And I think that's another reason people are excited about HIMS is that they are a young company that's finding a way to work with all the big dogs in the space and really prove their value uh from a distribution perspective. And as a result, uh they're building on top of that momentum and the market's rewarding them for this right now up 30% along with the fact that it sold short 30%.
So that probably is playing a catalyst right here uh as well. Thoughts on PayPal? Okay, so let's talk let's talk about PayPal. So if you're just joining SoFi up about 5%, tripleB raised guidance. Uh we're going to get the call in about 15 minutes. Uh PayPal's down 3%. So PayPal, unfortunately, this is uh a really sad story because I just don't think anyone believes in this company anymore.
And the buybacks are not really doing what I think the market thought they would do or what PayPal thought it would do. Uh revenue is a beat by one or missed by 1%. EPS is a beat by 15%. So that's a nice beat on EPS 133 by versus 116. Stocks down 3%. EPS is up 23% year-over-year. But then look at the revenue growth.
It's up 1% year-over-year. I mean I I don't know if you can grow 1% year-over-year. I don't care how undervalued you are. 1% year-over-year is like where's my dividend then? Because I'm not investing for a growth stock at that point. And you can't tell me the buybacks are going to be the story. Like the story should be I get a yield off the company.
And I think Steve's idea of saying take the buyback money and turn it into a dividend instead just gets the narrative on PayPal as a stock that you can get some some some guaranteed yield off of to be more acceptable. And so it seems like that's why it's down 3%. Now, we'll pull up their guidance and see what they have to say.
That might be another reason why it's down, but obviously it's getting hit. Yes, it's growing more than Tesla, which is hilarious compared to But again, Tesla is Tesla. PayPal is PayPal, right? There's just a difference in terms of the potential there. And so, I think the lack of revenue growth is the issue right here.
Alex Chris says, "Payal has had a great start to the year and our strategy is working. This is our fifth consecutive quarter of profitable growth with progress across brand to check out PSP, omni channel, and Venmo. We are transforming into the leading commerce platform connecting consumers and merchants globally. Our foundation is solid and we have multiple ways to win.
Revenue is up 1%. GAP operating income increased 31%. Operating margin expanded 447 basis points which is actually a good thing. And then EPS increased 56% 129 versus 133. That was a beat by 5% or 13% on estimates. Total payment volume was up 3% to 47 billion. Payment transaction decreased 7% to 6 billion.
This might be the argument that people are saying, "Hey, payments are getting competitive with Apple Pay and all the other um competitors that are out there. Robin Hood's credit card, right? There's so many different ways you can pay for stuff." And you got transactions decreasing 7%, which is not the best. Wow, look at this.
Transactions per active account also decreased 1%. I know 1% is a small decrease, but that's just not growth anymore. if overall transactions and then transactions per active account decreased and then active accounts increased but the overall uh uh uh volume of payments decreased. Yeah. I mean you got people kind of going back to that narrative that hey maybe there's just too much competition with Cash App and Robin Hood and Apple Pay and so many other Visa obviously American Express so many different ways that people can pay
for things. They have 15 billion in cash. They can definitely give a dividend if they wanted to. Debt is about 12.6 billion and they returned about 1.5 billion by by repurching 19 million shares. So they bought 19 million shares this quarter. Over the past quarter they bought or over the past year 12 months they bought 86 million shares.
It's pretty inca incredible dude. That's a lot of buybacks but that is not enough to get the street excited on why they should buy the stock. A lot of times stocks trade on narratives and it's and sometimes the narratives can become a lot more important than the valuations and that can lead to very expensive stocks.
But I'd rather have a stock with a narrative versus a stock without a narrative. And if you have the narrative and the growth like a pounder and a Robin Hood, then you really got something special. And that's where the multiples can get pretty strong. Grab, by the way, is up about 1%. I will be live at 7:30 p.m. Eastern for Grab.
It's going to be a long day for me. Grabs earnings calls I think at 8 PM. So, um I'm expecting a beat and raise on Grab and I'm expecting uh some more momentum. Uh Mark Mahaney from Evercore reiterated his $8 price target today on Grab. So, he continues to be bullish. I am pretty bullish.
You know, maybe this is a quarter where they sandbag again and the market doesn't like it. Maybe their eBay margins aren't that good, but uh I do think that they can get some momentum and so we'll see later today what Grab can do and what numbers they can put up. All right, Spotify right here. Why is Spotify down 7%.
Well, Spotify missed pretty aggressively in terms of overall numbers. I I still don't know why they missed this bad, but they missed EPS by 54%. They missed EPS by 54%. 122 versus 266. Uh I think this has to do with the fact that their operating margins were down because of the money they're paying to podcasters in their new monetization adshare program.
So now people can make money off their podcast on Spotify, which is great for creators, but obviously that could hurt Spotify's margins. And I guess it was just a really big hit to their margins by about 54%. That's my my thesis. I still have to go deeper into the numbers, but that's why I think they missed. Revenue was also a very slight miss at 4.
7 versus 4.8. Spotify has been a stock that has worked very I mean it's up like 5 6x from the uh 2022 lows and they've beaten every quarter on user growth and and uh members and premium subscribers but um it's just not enough for the street. So total monthly active users 678 million that's up 10% year-over-year.
Uh premium subs 268 ad supported users 423 that's up 12% and 9%. Uh revenue 4.1 billion that's up 15% year-over-year. Gross profit 1.3 that you can see that margin right there 31.6. 6 versus 32.2. I think that's actually what's affecting their EPS margins as well. Operating income margins were up a little bit, 12.1 versus 11.2.
And then free cash flow 534 versus 877 last quarter. So that's up 158% year-over-year, but that's down 40% uh quarter over quarter. And that also could be having a hit on the margins as well. So, I mean, look, I think that that narrative about Spotify being recession resistant like Netflix, I think that narrative is still real.
It's just this quarter had some numbers that weren't the best, and it is what it is. Sometimes you're not going to have the best numbers. Uh, but I think overall, if you're a Spotify long, like this quarter is not a red flag or anything to to change the thesis on Spotify. We got GM earnings as well. Let me look to GM right here.
They missed on Wall Street expectations. Let's pull them. Uh let's get their results right here. Is out with its earnings and we'll see what's happening. In the first quarter, the company earning 278 a share. The street was expecting 274 revenue coming in slightly better than expected at 44.02 billion about a billion dollars uh more than was expected.
all-in adjusted EBIT of 3.549 billion better than uh the estimate of 3.42 billion. The adjusted margin is 7.9%. For North America, GM made 3.28 billion. That's less than the first quarter of last year when they made 3.84 billion and they brought in about $45 million from China. That's an improvement compared to just an awful couple of years in China.
And remember, they took that huge write down and charge last year. I think what several billion dollars. So they made $45 million in the first quarter in China as they restructure that business. Average transaction price $50,700. That's up about $1,000 per vehicle compared to the same quarter a year ago.
And here's the news that people will be focused on. General Motors is reassessing its 2025 guidance due to the potential impact of tariffs. There will be an impact. They just don't know to what degree. And as a result, they are not sticking by the guidance that they gave in January for 2025. And they are now reassessing, that's the word they're using, their guidance on tariffs.
We should get more details regarding how General Motors sees the landscape, especially in North America with regard to tariffs when the company does its conference call, not today, but on Thursday. And we'll talk about why in just a little bit. We'll also have a first on CNBC interview with General Motor CEO, chair, and CEO Mary Bar.
That all right, so GM, uh, not a horrible quarter, not an amazing quarter. GM stock right here is where we at down about 2%. Nothing too crazy. Wow, dude. Hims 40%. My goodness. Um, kind of want to sell. I'm not going to lie. I really want to take my 40% in a day. Feels a bit unsustainable, but I'm not going to sell.
I'm going to keep this damn thing, but I want to. Um, I don't know. Is anyone else selling? I mean, what are you guys doing? What? This is This is kind of wild, dude. Holy crap. This is what happens when you have a narrative to your stock, bro. And when it's sold short, you know, it's not horrible. Um, like this is pretty aggressive. Nothing will hold with that type of hype, dude. That's what I'm think.
Is this going to really hold? Like, real. It's [ __ ] $42. Like, I'm up, 1300, dude. Come on. $1,300 is a lot of money. Oh my gosh, dude. This is ridiculous. This is ridiculous. Dude, who's selling? Let me do a poll. Who's selling their hymns? Who is selling hymns? But then again, what if it's what if it's what if it what if it keeps going higher? You guys know that meme? What's that meme where the Oh, I need to have a folder where I can save these memes.
There's this meme where like the the thing I don't even know what it's called, but there's this like character that's holding a character and then they're bringing the character back and then the the the thing is like oh I'm up 100%. But what if it goes higher and like what if it just keeps going higher, right? It's like the classic. Oh my gosh, dude.
I want to sell this thing. This is like is it really going to hold 42 freaking percent, dude? Come on. 40% like holy crap. But if it's squeezing, if it's squeezing. Um, wow. 54% of you said sold. I mean, I can't blame you. I can't blame you on this. Now it's up 47%. My goodness, dude. Like, realistically, could this end the day up 47%.
I mean, last time I saw that was when Hims was making his run to 70. Or when the markets open in an hour, does this thing just immediately gap back down to 28? I I I think it's going to dump at open at open as well, dude. Oh my gosh. I don't know, dude. This is like this is it's one of those it's I thought you was longterm.
No, but I bought him just because of just for just for fun realistic. I mean, I didn't really do any due diligence on this. I just had a friend who kept asking me to to buy this thing, so I bought it. The thing is, it would have to tank 40% now. 45% to get back to normal, which is fair. That could happen. Um, uh, oh, we got the notto call in three minutes.
I don't know, dude. I don't know. It's going to dump and opens, but not going back to 28. Yeah, that's fair. I think that's also true. Like, if it dumps at open, it's not it's not going back to 28, but it might dump back to like 35, which is I mean, look, the the the one argument against selling is that if it's able to uh to to to pump this easily, then eventually it's going to pump there again.
And so it's a question of do you want the profits right now or do you want it later in the future even if right now it's unsustainable. Now if it falls below 28 then I think it's like yeah it's probably something that would be a nice little swing trade but this is not insider trading bro I bought it for because I have a friend who's obsessed with this company and he said to buy because it's cheap and I looked at the financial like all right it's kind of cheap whatever and I bought it.
I I can literally show the the text from last time the group chat. I was like, "Fine, I'll buy the stupid shit." But I don't know if it holds up to this thing. Where is the call on not? Let me see if I pull this up. So webcast. All right, it's starting in two minutes. Starting in two minutes. Dude, this is kind of ridiculous.
56% of you are saying you sold. I don't know, man. 1,200o All right, screw it. I think I'm selling. I think I'm selling. I'm selling. Screw it. This is a 40% gain in a day. Kind of feel like it's unsustainable. Screw it. We're selling. If it goes higher, it goes higher. Whatever. Boom. It's done. We got out at 40. We got out at 40.
We got out at 40. We'll get back in eventually. And if we don't, it is what it is. We'll get back in eventually and if we don't, it is what it is. 40% in a day, bro. I'll take it. 40% in a day. I'll take it. I'll take I mean, come on, bro. Like, at some level, if it keeps pumping, then congrats to the Hims bulls. It keeps pumping.
But 40% in freaking less than 24 hours. Like, at some level, if it's not a stock I'm super long on, I think I got to take that. That's like a great trade there. There's no way I can I got to be that greedy. So, there you go. All right. Cool. All right. Not bad. Not bad. We got got a nice trade on soy. Where are on him? Where is this call, bro? Why isn't it popping up? It's not showing up on my thing.
Uh why don't they just do it on YouTube, dude? Every every company should do their call on YouTube. That's so much easier. Dude, look at this. It's not opening. It's not opening. Yeah. I think I'm gonna buy I'm gonna buy Grab with the I'm I'm gonna buy Grab with the with the profits.
And look, it says something went wrong. Please try again later. Why don't they just do it on YouTube, bro? Like, that's just so much easier. Um, let me see. Let me see. Let me see. Webcast. Let's see if I can get it here. All right. So, if you sold HIMS, congrats. We're either going to see this thing keep pumping or maybe it was a good sell and we come back to 28.
And if it comes back to 28, I'll buy again. But um we'll see what happens. Okay, I'm trying to get the call. Give me one second. The thing's being really weird. Things is being weird. Verify email. yada yada. Uh okay, let me log in. Okay. Do I have it? Do I have it? Okay, I got it. All right, here we go. Here we go. So call it. Here we go.
Anthony Nodto, CEO, and Chris Le Point, CFO. You can find the presentation accompanying our earnings release on the investor relations section of our website. Unless otherwise stated, we'll be referring to adjusted results for the first quarter of 2025 versus the first quarter of 2024.
Our remarks today will include forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations and forecasts and involve risks and uncertainties. These statements include, but are not limited to our competitive advantage and strategy, macroeconomic conditions and outlook, future products and services, and future business and financial performance.
Our GAP consolidated income statement and all reconciliations can be found in today's earnings release in the subsequent 10Q filing which will be made available next month. Our actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause these results to differ materially are described in today's press release and our subsequent filings made with the SEC, including our upcoming form 10Q.
Any forward-looking statements that we make on this call are based on assumptions as of today. We undertake no obligation to update these statements as a result of new information or future events. And now I'd like to turn the call over to Anthony. Thank you and good morning everyone. We're off to a tremendous start in 2025 as we continue to drive durable growth and strong returns through our product innovation and brand building.
Our battle tested strategy and diverse business were instrumental in driving an acceleration in revenue growth to 33% and a 3x year-over-year increase in earnings. I'll begin by covering our key results for the first quarter. Starting with our durable growth, which continues to be driven by exceptional growth in members and products.
We added a record 800,000 new members in Q1, driving 34% year-over-year growth, reaching 10.9 million SoFi members. We also added 1.2 million new products, representing 35% year-over-year growth to over 15.9 million products. Our strong member and product growth powered great revenue growth in the first quarter. Adjusted net revenue was a record at $771 million, up 33% year-over-year.
This is our highest growth rate in five quarters. Together, our financial services and technology platform segments generated $47 million of revenue, up 66% year-over-year. In our lending segment, adjusted net revenue grew 27% year-over-year to $412 million, driven by strong originations in the segment of $5.
7 billion, up 30% from the prior year. Combined with $1.6 6 billion of origination in the loan platform business in Q1. Originations reached a record of $7.2 billion. Total feebased revenue across our business was also a quarterly record at $315 million, up 67% from the prior year. This was driven by strong performance from our loan platform business origination revenue fees, referral revenue, interchange revenue, and brokerage fee revenue.
On an annualized basis, we are now generating nearly 1.3 billion of feebased revenue, reflecting the deliberate diversification of our business towards more capital revenue streams. In addition to delivering strong, durable growth, we delivered strong returns and profitability in the first quarter. All three segments delivered strong contribution profit at attractive margins.
Adjusted EVA for the quarter was a record $210 million up 46% year-over-year. Our adjusted EVA margin for the quarter was 27%. Our incremental EBID margin was 35% as we continue to reinvest in the business to drive long-term growth and profitability. Net income was $71 million at a margin of 9%. Earnings per share were 6 cents.
Finally, our tangible book value ended the quarter at $5.1 billion, a year-over-year increase of $946 million. Our strong financial performance is the direct result of our continued investments in brand building and product innovation. These investments attract new members and clients into our digital one-stop shop ecosystem and lead them to adopt more products over time.
This virtual cycle, which we call our financial services productivity loop or FSPL, fuels our growth and ultimately our returns as we scale. In addition to product growth, we also measure the effectiveness of our productivity loop and the success of our strategy based on crossby. And crossby continues to be very strong.
In the first quarter, 32% of new products were opened by existing SoFi members. Let me take a moment to discuss some of our recent investments in brand building and product innovation across our businesses. A significant amount of our marketing investment goes towards building the SoFi brand name via broadscale high reach branded marketing.
This investment is centered on building SoFi into a trusted household brand name which we measure based on unaded brand awareness. Having a strong brand creates a halo effect that makes our performance marketing of each product more efficient. Our unaded brand awareness continued to be very strong through the quarter at 7%.
During the first quarter, we completed the inaugural season of TEL presented by SoFi, a new techdriven stadium golf league with 14 of the top 25 golfers in the world, including Rory Maroy and Tiger Woods. TGL presented by SoFi attracted over 20 million total viewers on ESPN in its inaugural season. Since the SoFi brand goes everywhere the TJL brand goes, we capitalized on not just the broadcast audience reach that exceeded our expectations, but also the massive social presence as well as the exciting gameplay.
We launched a promotion for SoFi Invest tied to players performance during the playoffs. This onair and online integrated marketing effort helped drive record engagement levels for SoFi Invest. We also continue to benefit from Sofi Stadium as well as the continuity of our branding with the NBA and key sports ambassadors in Windham Clark, Cameron Brink, Jason Tatum, and of course the OG SoFi partner athlete Justin Herbert.
Additionally, we became the presenting partner of the Country Music Association's CMA Fest. This is our first ever music partnership and an incredible platform to introduce more people to SoFi through the live event, broadcast, and social media channels. This partnership will also allow us to enhance the fan experience for SoFi Plus members through exclusive perks.
Turning now to product innovation in our segments. Financial services is our fastest growing segment, doubling its revenue year-over-year to over $300 million. I'll touch on a few of the most significant contributions to this growth. Starting with our SoFi money business. To scale this business as rapidly as we have, we've invested significant capital to build the strong operational and regulatory capabilities that are required to have a nationally regulated bank with insured deposits as well as earned the trust of our members.
The investment, while not always obvious externally, has been transformational for our business. We have grown annualized debit spending to over $14 billion, just one of our high margin feebased revenue streams. We've also grown our total deposits to 27.3 billion, lowering our funding expense by an estimated $515 million per year.
Along the way, we've more than tripled our money product since the end of 2021 to nearly 5.5 million today by offering an unmatched value proposition with a high APY, P2P payments, bill pay, autopilot, vaults, zel, two-day early paycheck, $3 million of FDIC insurance, and unmatched rewards for checking and savings accounts, and so much more.
Even with the success of Sofi Money, we are continuously finding ways to improve the member experience. For example, this quarter we completed the rollout of self-service wires, which gives members another frictionless way to move money. We are now the only company that offers digital person-toperson payments via phone number or email address and the ability to send money via zel, a self-s serve wires.
Given the performance of SoFi Money, we expect it to become our second billiond dollar revenue business. Another key contributor to growth in financial services is our loan platform business where we produce loans on behalf of third parties. In less than a year, we've grown the business to an annualized run rate of over $6 billion of originations and more than $380 million of additional high margin, high return feebased revenue.
And we continue to see strong demand for these loans. This year, we finalized a $5 billion deal with Blue Owl, a $2 billion extension with Fortress, and a $1.2 billion joint venture between Fortress and Edge Focus. These additional deals will accelerate the quarterly originations well above the current level of $1.6 billion.
Importantly, the LPB loans do not present any ongoing credit risk and contribute to member growth as we hold the relationship and can benefit from crossbite into other SoFi products. So far, the vast majority of our LPB loans have been within our prime credit box, but over and above the volume we want to put on our balance sheet.
However, we have the ability to also meet demand from buyers who want near prime loans. With higher WAC, we can even extend this program to other loan types in the future. We are incredibly optimistic about the depth and breadth of the growth opportunities in the loan platform business and we see it becoming our third billion dollar revenue business.
Turning to SoFi Invest in January, we shared that we are accelerating our investment in SoFi Invest and that decision is already bearing fruit. Q1 2025 marked an acceleration in product growth to 2.7 million products up 21% year-over-year and we expect further acceleration in invest product growth throughout the year.
The first quarter also marked our best quarter ever of member engagement even compared to when we offered cryptocurrency or launched IPOs and alternative assets. In the first quarter, we made significant improvements to our single stock presentations, which provide members with insights to help make more informed investment decisions.
Our new experience is clearer, easier to navigate, and more informative, driving positive feedback, and importantly, an increase in engagement. We also made it easier to roll over 401k assets with a more intuitive design and stronger back-end engineering, which improves completion rates and provides another great way to build long-term durable relationships with members.
We continue to expand on our unmatched selection, including investment opportunities that have been typically reserved for the high net wealth segment. Following our highly successful SPV for SpaceX last year, we've expanded our partnership with Templum so members can invest in another privately held company, Anthropic. We're also accelerating our product investment to improve the Invest user experience and drive more personalization as well as better discovery of our Invest product offerings within our app.
We want to ensure that members are aware of all we have to offer and are getting valuable insights and information that are tailored to their specific needs. The more we service our great investment selection, the more engagement we see. So, Invest stands alone in the breadth of our offering, including the ability to buy and sell single stocks without commissions or fees.
Our award-winning robo advisory product that offers three different themes with a total of 15 unique strategies, four SoFi branded ETFs that are specifically tailored to our members needs, IPOs, and level two options. We are also providing access to alternative assets including private equity, private credit, private real estate, venture capital, long short hedge funds, and private individual company investments.
We continue to add more selection and by the end of the year, if all goes as planned, we will add both level one options and certain crypto or blockchain offerings. Given the evolving regulatory landscape, we see an opportunity to re-enter the crypto and blockchain business more comprehensively. In addition to enabling members to invest in crypto coins, we will enter other areas over the next 6 to 24 months, but potentially much sooner via acquisition or if the changing regulatory landscape allows.
Our aspirations over time are as broad and deep as they are for our existing SoFi business, including developing crypto and blockchain offerings across borrowing, investing, paying, saving, and our technology platform services for third parties. Turning to our tech platform segment here, the market for digitally native financial product platform is significant and continues to evolve.
Recognizing the longer lead times associated with large-scale core banking conversions and consolidation among smaller fintech clients, we found innovative ways to broaden our client base. For example, this quarter we launched a firstofits-kind reward debit program with Windham Hotels and Resorts. Later this year, we expect to launch similar co-brand debit card programs with other travel and hospitality companies, further expanding our footprint among consumer brands, and we recently signed a deal with Merkantil Banko, which offers personal and
business banking services in Panama and will use our cyber bank digital banking platform. We are pleased with the demand from new client opportunities for the tech platform business and expect these wins and others in the RFP process to have an impact on our revenue in 2026 and beyond.
Now turning to our lending segment starting with our home loans business. Our 2023 acquisition of Windom Mortgage strengthened our technology and fulfillment capabilities creating significant capacity for growth in Q1. This helps us grow home loan originations by 54%. At the same time, we've expanded to offer home equity loans a great value to members given the fact that they are sitting on low rate mortgages that they do not want to touch in a higher rate environment.
This product, which we didn't have a year ago, accounted for more than onethird of our home lending volume during the first quarter. It was our best quarter ever for home equity originations and should only go higher from here. As interest rates come down, we expect in our planning for a significant acceleration in the demand for home loans for both home purchase and refinance.
We're also launching new personal loan and student loan refinancing products. The new personal loan product launching next month will be for prime credit card customers that carry revolving balance and are making mostly interestonly payments. These are commonly referred to as revolvers. Members will now get a fairly priced deal instead of being gouged by credit card companies and big banks who charge 20 plus% interest to earn an ROE of 50% on some of these prime credit revolvers.
We will meaningfully cut the cost of debt for this prime borrower, reducing monthly payments by as much as 40%. While generating an attractive target ROE in line with the 30% that we generate on our broader personal loan portfolio. So, all you premium credit card holders out there that somehow found yourself with 10 to $30,000 or more of debt on your credit card that you're now only making minimum payments on, we are here to help get rid of that debt and get your money right.
In the midst of uncertainty around student loan options in the market, we just launched an innovative member- centric refinancing solution known as Smart Start. This allows for lower payments in the early part of the loan and steps up into paying regular payments after this introductory period, helping members find their footing and build long-term savings.
Yet another way we innovate to help our members spend less than they make and invest the rest. Let me wrap up the discussion on our results, branding, and product innovation with a perspective on SoFi Relay and SoFi Plus. Both products make their footprint bigger than their foot and are critical elements of our financial services productivity loop.
SoFi Relay allows members to easily track and manage all their SoFi and non-sofi financial products and accounts on our digital platform through an easy to use dashboard. Relay is our second largest product at 5 million which is up 41% year-over-year. Although relay doesn't generate revenue directly, it is a lightweight starting point and serves as the tip of the sword with very attractive crossbite patterns into other SoFi products.
As an example of relay's impact, onethird of the relay first members that cross by adopt at least three products with the most common sequence being relay to money to invest. Turning to SoFi Plus, our premium membership tier that brings together the best of all we have to offer through America's most rewarding financial membership, unlocking over $1,000 in value each year.
Previously, members needed a direct deposit with us to be a SoFi Plus member, but during the first quarter, we added a feebased subscription option as well. While this option is new, we are already seeing some promising behaviors among early subscribers. Nearly 90% of the new plus members were already existing members, demonstrating the validation of making this product more accessible via a pay option, not just via direct deposit.
The product has also been a catalyst for our FSPL, driving the second order effects of crossby among these members with nearly 30% adopting an additional product within 30 days of enrollment. Among SoFi Plus subscribers who are completely new to Sofi, over 75% adopt at least a second product and over 40% adopt a third product within 30 days of enrollment.
Importantly, these members are adopting products across our platform beyond just SoFi money. This data demonstrates that members truly value the one-stop shop model. And by exposing members to our complete offering, we can accelerate Crossbot. Hopefully, it is as clear to you as it is to me that our strategy continues to deliver great results.
That is why we have decided to further accelerate our rate of innovation while still being able to increase our fullear guidance. Our value proposition has never been more relevant to the members and clients we serve. We are stepping on the gas to launch new products faster and iterate to improve our existing products at an even more rapid pace.
The opportunity in front of us is too massive to risk underinvesting to capture it. I'll be back after Chris covers the detailed financial results and guidance. So, spend a few more minutes talking about this important topic and the strength of our competitive position. Thank you, Anthony.
It has been a strong start to the year as we continue to drive durable growth and strong returns. We exceeded each metric that we guided to during our last call on the way to delivering accelerating revenue growth in our sixth consecutive profitable quarter. For the quarter, revenue grew 33% year-over-year to a record $771 million.
Adjusted EVIDA was also a record at $210 million and a margin of 27%. Net income was $71 million at a margin of 9%. And earnings per share was 6 cents. This included a small benefit of about a penny related to a lower thanex expected effective tax rate. An important driver of the acceleration of growth was the increased contribution from Capital Light non- lending as well as feebased revenue sources.
Our non- lending businesses generated $47 million of revenue up 66% year-over-year. And we also generated record feebased revenue across all businesses of $315 million, up 67% year-over-year. Turning now to our segment performance in terms of financial services for the first quarter, net revenue was $33 million, more than double that of Q1 2024.
Contribution profit was $148 million, up 4x from last year. Contribution margin was 49% almost double what it was last year. Net interest income for this segment was $173 million, up 45% year-over-year, which was primarily driven by growth in member deposits. Non-interest income grew 3.2x to $130 million in the quarter, which equates to over half a billion dollars in highquality feebased income on an annualized basis.
Importantly, improved modernization continues its strong contribution to revenue growth. Financial services revenue per product increased from $59 in the first quarter of 24 to $88 in the first quarter of 25. That's up nearly 50% and we see continued upside as newer products mature. In Q1, our loan platform business generated $96 million in adjusted net revenue, up 44% from just last quarter.
Of this, $93 million was driven by the $1.6 billion of personal loans originated on behalf of third parties as well as referrals. I would note that these originations were up 41% quarter-over-arter, while the associated platform fees increased approximately 50% reflecting stronger monetization within this business. Additionally, LPB generated $3 million from servicing cash flow, which is recorded in our lending segment.
The growth opportunity for this business continues to be strong. On the heels of launching our $5 billion partnership with Blue Owl Capital in Q1, we are pleased to have recently secured an additional $3.2 billion through a one-year $2 billion extension with Fortress and a two-year $1.2 2 billion agreement with a joint venture between Fortress and Edge Focus.
These partnerships continue to demonstrate the attractiveness of our loan production to investors. In addition to our LPB revenue, we continue to see healthy growth in interchange, up 90% year-over-year, driven by close to 16 billion in total annualized spend in the quarter across money and credit card. Shifting to our tech platform, for the first quarter, we delivered net revenue of $103 million, up 10% year-over-year.
Contribution profit was $31 million at a contribution margin of 30%. Revenue growth was driven by continued monetization of existing clients along with new deals signed in new client segments. We saw a slight decrease in accounts to 158 million or 6% year-over-year while revenue still grew 10% year-over-year with similar growth in potential acceleration in Q2.
This was driven by a large client's decision last year to diversify their processing providers which was factored into our outlook for 2025. We continue to diversify our client base by winning new business and we expect these wins to drive financial performance and an offset in 2026. Turning now to our lending segment.
For the first quarter, adjusted net revenue was $412 million, up 27% from the same period last year. Contribution profit was $239 million with a 58% contribution margin. These strong results were primarily driven by growth in net interest income, which increased 35% year-over-year to $361 million. During the last quarter, we had record total loan originations of $7.
2 billion, up 66% year-over-year. Personal loan originations were a record at $5.5 billion, of which $1.6 billion was originated on behalf of third parties through LPB. In total, personal loan originations were up 69% year-over-year. Student loan originations were $1.2 billion, up 59% from the same period last year.
Home loan originations were $518 million, a 54% year-over-year increase. Capital markets activity was very strong in the first quarter. We sold and transferred to our loan platform business $3.1 billion of personal and home loans. In terms of personal loans, we closed $1.1 billion of sales in whole loan form at a blended execution of 106.2%.
All deals had similar structures to other recent personal loan sales with cash proceeds at or nearpar and the majority of the premium consisting of contractual servicing fees that are capitalized. These sales included a small loss share provision that is above our base assumption of losses and immaterial relative to the exposure we would have otherwise had if we had held on to the loans.
Additionally, we sold $90 million of late stage delinquent personal loans. By selling these loans, we're able to generate positive incremental value over time versus selling after they charge off, both from our improved recovery capabilities and by maintaining servicing. In terms of home loan sales, we closed $322 million at a blended execution of 102.1%.
In addition to our personal and home loan sales, we executed a $698 million securization of loans originated through our loan platform business. This was the first securization of new collateral in our SoFi consumer loan program or SCP since 2021 and the first using collateral originated in the loan platform business.
Importantly, this channel provides our partners with meaningful liquidity to support their ongoing investment in the loan platform business. The transaction priced at an industryleading cost of funds levels with a weighted average spread of 87 basis points and an all-in yield of 5.10. 10%. Turning to credit performance, the health of our consumer remains strong despite the market volatility.
We are not seeing signs of weakness. Our personal loan borrowers have a weighted average income of $158,000 and a weighted average FICO score of 743. While our student loan borrowers have a weighted average income of $134,000 with a weighted average FICO score of 769. Our credit trends continue to be strong after seeing delinquencies peak one year ago in the first quarter of 2024.
For personal loans, the onbalance sheet 90-day delinquency rate was 46 basis points in the quarter, a decrease of nine basis points sequentially. The annualized charge off rate also declined to 3.31% versus 3.37% in the prior quarter. Had we not sold any late stage delinquencies, we estimate that including recoveries between 90 and 120 days delinquent, we would have had an all-in annualized net charge off rate for personal loans of approximately 4.
8% versus 4.9% last quarter. For student loans, the onbalance sheet 90-day delinquency rate was in line with last quarter at 13 basis points, while our annualized charge off rate decreased 15 basis points to 47 basis points. The data continues to support our 7 to 8% maximum life alone loss assumption for personal loans in line with our underwriting tolerance.
Although we continue to trend below these levels, our recent vintages originated from Q4 2022 to Q2 2024 have net cumulative losses of 4.09% with 43% unpaid principal balance remaining. This is well below the 5.53% observed at the same point in time for the 2017 vintage, the last vintage that approached our 7 to 8% tolerance.
The gap between the newer cohort curve and the 2017 cohort curve widened by a more favorable 16 basis points after widening improvements of 15 basis points in Q4. Additionally, looking at our Q1 2020 through Q4 2024 originations, 59% of principal has already been paid down with 6.7% in net cumitive losses.
Therefore, for life alone losses on this entire cohort of loans to reach 8%, the charge off rate on the remaining 41% of unpaid principal would need to be approximately 10%. This would be well above past levels, further underscoring our confidence in achieving loss rates below our 8% tolerance. Turning to our fair value marks and key assumptions.
As a reminder, we mark our loans at fair value each quarter, which considers a number of factors including the weighted average coupon, the constant default rate, the conditional prepayment rate, and the discount rate comprised of benchmark rates and spreads. At the end of the first quarter, our personal loans were marked at 105.
5%, up 55 basis points from the end of the prior quarter. This change was primarily a function of the discount rate decreasing by 42 basis points to 4.87% due to the underlying benchmark rate decreasing by 34 basis points and spreads tightening by eight basis points. As we've previously noted, both of these changes are empirical based on actual market data, not assumptions.
Additionally, any fair value impacts that resulted from interest rates increasing were offset nearly one for one by hedge losses. Additionally, the annual default rate decreased by 18 basis points. Slightly offsetting these impacts was a 14 basis point decrease in the weighted average coupon and a 52 basis point increase in our conditional prepayment rate.
When a borrower prepays, we are still capturing the principal and the impact to the value of the asset is only based on the premium above par at a given point in time, which is very small relative to the principal outstanding. At the end of the first quarter, our student loans were marked at 105.2% 2% up 107 basis points from the end of the prior quarter.
This change was a function of the discount rate decreasing by 18 basis points to 4.22% driven by the underlying benchmark rate decreasing by 38 basis points partially offset by 20 basis points of spread widening and a 10 basis point increase in the weighted average coupon. There were no material changes to the annual default rate or the conditional prepayment rate.
Turning to our balance sheet, in the first quarter, total assets grew by $ 1.5 billion, driven by $1.6 billion of loan growth and approximately $265 million of growth in cash, cash equivalents, and investment securities, partially offset by a reduction in other assets. Total companywide cash at quarter end was $2.
7 billion. On the liability side, member deposits grew by $2.2 2 billion for the quarter, bringing total deposits to over 27 billion. Net interest margin was 6.01% for the quarter, up 10 basis points sequentially, reflecting our ability to sustain healthy deposit versus lending betas. This included a 27 basis point decrease in cost of funds, which was partially offset by a 13 basis point decrease in average yields.
We continue to expect a healthy net interest margin above 5% for the foreseeable future. In terms of our regulatory capital ratios, we remain very well capitalized. Our total capital ratio of 15.5% at quarter end remains comfortably above the regulatory minimum of 10.5%. Tangible book value grew more than $167 million sequentially to 5.
1 billion. and tangible book value per share at quarter end is $4.58 up from $3.90 a year ago. Let me finish by providing our revised outlook for 2025. Given our strong start to the year, we continue to expect to add over 2.8 million members, which represents at least 28% year-over-year growth. We now expect adjusted net revenue of 3.
235 to 3.310 billion above our prior guidance of 3.2 2 to3.275 billion. This equates to year-over-year growth of approximately 24 to 27% an increase from our prior guide of 23 to 26%. We now expect an adjusted EVITA of $875 to $895 million above our prior guidance of $845 to $865 million. This represents a 27% margin.
We now expect adjusted net income in the range of 320 to $330 million above our prior guidance of $285 to $35 million and adjusted EPS of 27 to 28 cents above our prior guidance of 25 to 27. We now expect growth in tangible book value of 585 to $600 million for the year above our prior guidance of 550 to $575 million. For the second quarter of 2025, assuming credit spreads are in line with the range we've observed year-to- date, we expect to deliver adjusted net revenue of 785 to $85 million, adjusted EVITA of $200 to $210 million, adjusted net
income of $60 to $70 million, and adjusted EPS of 5 to6 cents. Overall, it's been a strong start to 2025, and we're looking forward to a great year overall. I'll hand it back to Anthony to wrap us up and kick off the Q&A. Thank you, Chris. As I mentioned, our strategy and execution continue to deliver excellent results.
The opportunity in front of us remains massive, and we are accelerating our investment in new product launches. We are building from a position of strength as the only digital company to successfully scale members and revenue across five lending businesses, a world-class SoFi money offering with 27 billion in total deposits and invest in credit card offerings with 2.
7 million products and over 300,000 card holders respectively. At the same time, we're incubating and beginning to scale our SoFi Protect offering across home, auto, and life insurance, lending, and checking products for small and medium businesses, and of course, our recently launched SoFi Plus product with the best value in a financial services subscription offering.
Additionally, we have seen tremendous scale and indirect value creation from SoFi Relay with over 5.1 million products. Despite all of that success, we built an entirely new loan platform business in less than 12 months, generating a 380 million annualized high margin fee revenue stream. And of course, our technology platform business serving over 158 million accounts and over 8 billion annualized transactions while helping power the SoFi products.
Make no mistake, within each business, we have or will have superior speed, capabilities, and services when compared side by side to alternative offerings as product quality is critical to being a member centric company. But having great products is not enough. We must also have a sustainable competitive advantage.
In that regard, we believe our unique strategy, the combination of our businesses and how we have architected our products results in building a sustainable competitive advantage and having the highest lifetime value per member. Our highest lifetime value is built on the back of striving to have superior unit economics on a per product basis combined with significantly lower cost and more products and revenue per member such that we can provide more value in each product and more value when they are used together. And we can do this better
than anyone else. Specifically, our competitive advantage allows us to offer superior and even one day unmatchable value to our members and the broadest selection of loans with the best interest rates, superior APY and deposits, the best value in a financial service subscription product in SoFi Plus, the broadest selection and invest products and competitive matches on invest rollovers.
A fully comprehensive suite of products all in one device which is necessary to get your money right. as well as SoFi rewards across all of our products and services, free financial planning with the CFP, discounted travel offerings, and other spend better offers. Additionally, we provide free services like Relay, Autopilot, Vaults, Zel, and P2P.
And finally, several new AIdriven products in development that will specifically show our members how to get their money right by spending less than they make and investing the rest. like the SoFi ExpensArt and SoFi Cash Coach, just to name a few. In total, SoFi's unmatched value across its products and services make it the best place to help members achieve the most critical factors in their financial life, which is how to spend less than they make and invest the rest in order to get their money right and realize their ambitions. All that we
do must serve this simple but hard to achieve equation better than anyone else. Hopefully, our leadership position as a one-stop shop in our competitive advantage with the highest lifetime value is clear. All right, I'm switching to descent. Partisan take it down act passed the house last night. This important legislation was championed and guided through Congress by our wonderful first lady Melania Trump, including through her direct advocacy on behalf of survivors during her passage the the passage efforts. The Take It Down Act
criminalizes the publication of non-consensual imtate imagery and requires social media and similar websites to remove such content within 48 hours of notice from a victim. The first lady thanks all those who voted in favor of this important legislation and the president looks forward to signing it when it arrives on his desk.
Today officially marks 100 days of promises made and promises kept by President Trump. This has truly been the most historic start to a presidency in American history. After building the greatest economy in the world in his first term as president, President Trump is in the process of doing that all over again.
The American people trust in President Trump. Since his first day in office, President Trump has focused on defeating the Biden inflation crisis, bringing down the cost of living, and making the United States the best place in the world to do business, invest, create jobs, and innovate. And President Trump's efforts are working. 345,000 jobs have already been added since the start of President Trump's term.
Last month's jobs report saw nearly 100,000 more jobs than economists predicted and it was the fourth highest month for private payroll growth in the past two years. 9,000 manufacturing jobs have been added to the economy already. This is a sharp contrast to the 6,000 manufacturing jobs that were lost each month in the final two years of the Biden administration.
The US employment rate rate remains at historic lows. And thanks to President Trump, Americans are seeing price relief for the first time in years. The last inflation report showed the first consumer price decline since the COVID pandemic, a decrease in energy prices and real average hourly wage growth. President Trump is delivering on his promises to lower costs for American families and businesses.
Prices across the board for everyday goods have seen decline since this president was inaugurated. From airfare to used motor vehicles to pres prescription drugs, prices are dropping. In fact, last month's drop in the price of prescription drugs was the largest ever recorded. And after Joe Biden botched the response to the bird flu, President Trump and Secretary Rollins aggressive plan have brought down wholesale egg prices more than 50% from inauguration day.
President Trump ended Joe Biden's reckless war on American energy and fossil fuels and has restored American energy dominance. And Secretary Wright, Secretary Doug Bergam are working hard on that effort every single day. Oil and gas prices are now way down because of this bold approach. Gasoline prices down 7%. Energy down.
Energy prices are also down as well. The Department of Interior just announced a new offshore drilling policy that will boost oil production in the Gulf of America by 100,000 barrels per day. On the deregulation front, President Trump is committed to cutting senseless red tape, especially for America's small business owners, who are the backbone of our economy.
We know cutting regulation leads to lower costs and higher growth. The mass deregulation effort by this administration will help usher in the golden age of America which is underway. Immediately upon taking office, President Trump blocked all of the unifi unfalized Biden era rules, saving America's more than 100 billion dollars or 2100 per family of four over the next decade.
And the president also launched a bold multi- agency effort to roll back existing federal regulations that drive up the cost of living on hardworking families. This effort is projected to yield significant cost savings in the coming months, including the EPA's roll back of tailpipe emission rules for light duty and medium duty vehicles and the Department of Transportation's latest corporate average fuel economy standards.
These two efforts alone yield $755 billion in total savings or more than 8,800 per family of four over the next decade. In total, the combined savings from all of these act actions equal just over 935 billion or nearly 11,000 in real savings per family of four per the coming decade. The press is not talking nearly enough about the positive impact of President Trump's deregulation campaign, and investments from the biggest companies and countries in the world are pouring in under this president.
So far, total investment commitments under the Trump administration have reached more than5 trillion dollars, including 500 billion from Apple and US-based manufacturing and training, 500 billion from Nvidia and AI infrastructure, 100 billion from TSMC and US-based chips manufacturing, and the $500 billion private investment by OpenAI, Oracle, and SoftBank in AI infrastructure as well.
All of these investment commitments are estimated to generate at least 451,000 new highpaying jobs for American workers and families. At this point, President Trump has secured more investments in the United States of America in 100 days than Joe Biden did in four years. President Trump is America's businessman chief, and that's why these trillions of dollars in investments are flooding to our country.
The business community is bullish on America because President Trump is back in charge. Tomorrow, the president will host CEOs and leaders from several companies that have made these investments to tout their historic commitments to our country and encourage others to follow suit. Under President Trump, there has never been a better time to invest in America.
And the president finally said enough is enough and refused to allow America and our workers to be ripped off any longer on trade. President Trump implemented powerful tariffs to end the era of economic surrender and to rebalance America's trading agreements. More than 100 countries have already come to the table looking to offer more favorable terms for America and our people.
There has never been a president who has created his own leverage like this president. And we are just getting started. Republicans in Congress are getting very close to passing President Trump's one big beautiful bill which will include the largest tax cuts in American history. strong border security measures, major military advancements, dramatic deregulation, and common sense spending reforms.
As President Trump has said before, the best is yet to come. For more on President Trump's economic successes so far and the plans ahead, I want to pass it off to our incredible Treasury Secretary, Scott Bessett, who is here today, and we will open it up to questions. In our new media seat, we have Brendan Peterson, the financial services reporter for Punch Bowl News.
Punch Bowl News covers power, people, and politics based in Washington DC. Laser focus on Capitol Hill, the politics of legislating. Founded in 2021, and it is the first newsletter that Capitol Hill and the White House reads every morning in the middle of the day and throughout the evening. Thanks for being here with us and we'll start with you today.
Um, thanks so much for being here. I have a question for Secretary Bessen. Um on tariffs, uh the president said over the weekend that we are hoping that maybe tariff revenues could replace income tax. Um but we also keep hearing about the deals the administration is pursuing. So my question is what is the White House's ultimate object objective here? Do you want to have long-term tariff revenue or deals that might reduce those tariffs? I think it's a combination of both.
So, we're going to take in long-term tariff revenue. We put a process in place. We have 18 important trading relationships. Uh we will be speaking to all of those partners or at least 17 of them. They over the next few weeks. Many of them have already come to Washington. Uh what President Trump is referring to is the ability for tariff revenue to give income tax relief.
And I think there's a very good chance that we will see this in the upcoming tax bill. The president campaigned on no tax on tips, the no tax on social security, no tax on overtime, and the restoring interest deductibility for autos for Americanmade autos. So, uh, tariff income could be used for tax relief on all those immediately.
So you think that there is a role for significant tariff revenue in US fiscal policy? Uh I I think that it is something that got put away a long time ago and I think that tariffs uh will bring back American manufacturing and generate substantial revenues. On manufacturing, we've seen some pretty grizzly surveys this month from the Philly Fed, um, which saw the biggest drop since May of 2020, and the Dallas Fed, similar plunging outlook, poor shipping orders.
What are American manufacturers not understanding about your push for onoring in the US? Well, I I think it I was in the investment business 35 years and I learned to ignore the survey data and look or the surveys, look at the actual data and the actual data has been quite good. The job data is good. Americans keep spending and as Caroline said, we have these incredible commitments to bring manufacturing back on shore with record uh investment by domestic corporations and foreigners who want to come into the US.
Thank you so much, Caroline. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The Chinese continue to say that the US and China are not engaged in any consultation or negotiation on tariffs. You've recently said you've talked to your counterpart, but more about quote traditional things like financial stability. So, can you clarify is the administration talking to Beijing specifically about tariffs or not? Well, we're not going to talk about who's talking to whom, but I think that, you know, over time we will see that the chi Chinese tariffs are unsustainable
for China. I've saw I've seen some very large numbers over the past few days to show if these numbers stay on, Chinese could lose 10 million jobs very quickly and even if there is a drop in the tariffs that they could lose 5 million jobs. So remember that we are the deficit country. They sell almost five times more goods to us than we sell to them.
So the onus will be on them to the uh take off these tariffs. They're unsustainable for them and they are saying you guys are not talking about it. So is that true? Uh look, they have a different form of government. They're playing to a different audience. So, I'm not going to get into uh the the nitty-gritty again of who's talking to whom.
Uh but as I said, I believe for the Chinese, uh these tariffs are unsustainable. And very quickly, two days ago, you said you didn't know if President Trump had spoken to Xi Jinping. Do you know now? Again, I would say Caroline and I have a lot of jobs around the White House running the switchboard in one of them. Go ahead. Secretary Bon, thank you so much for being here this morning.
Um you've talked about the importance of giving investors certainty um when it comes to the market. Yet the Trump administration is is continuing to negotiate several complex trade deals in a very sort of compressed time frame. When do you when do you expect you'll be able to give the market some certainty around those deals? Do you have a deadline? Is it the 90-day pause? What are we looking at here? Good question.
And I I think one thing that has been a little disconcerting for the markets is you know President Trump creates what I would call strategic uncertainty in the negotiations. So he is more concerned about getting the best possible trade deals the for the American people. You know we had four years of bad deals for decades the of unfair trading and we are going to the unwind those and make them fair.
What we are doing is we've created a process. I think the aperture of uncertainty will be narrowing and as we start moving forward announcing deals then there will be certainty but you know it's certainty is not necessarily a good thing in negotiating. Mr. Secretary, last night there there were reports on the administration sort of walking back a little bit on the auto tariffs.
Can you sort of just elaborate on that decision there and what we can expect going going forward and why sort of the shift in this auto chair? Well, President Trump has had meetings with both domestic and for excuse me, foreign auto producers and he's committed to bringing back auto production to the US. So, we want to give the automakers a path to do that uh quickly, efficiently, and create as many jobs as possible.
Jasmine, thank you so much, Caroline. Thank you, Secretary. Back on China, does the administration anticipate anticipate supply chain shocks or supply shocks coming um now that cargo shipments from China are significantly down? And if so, are there being plans or are there plans uh in the process of how to address that? I I wouldn't think that we would have supply chain shocks and I think retailers, they have managed their inventory in in front of this.
You know, I I speak to dozens of companies sometimes daily. They but definitely weekly and uh they know that President Trump is committed to fair trade and have planned accordingly. And a second question, can you outline the timeline for when you think some of these deals particularly with your Asian countries like India, Japan, South Korea, uh you may have an announcement? I I'm glad you brought up our Asian trading partners and allies.
uh they have been uh the most forthcoming in terms of doing the deals. As I mentioned, Vice President Vance was in India last week. I think that he and Modi made some very good progress. So, I could see some announcements on India. I could see the contours of a deal with the Republic of Korea coming together and then we've had substantial talks with the Japanese.
Andrea, Secretary Bessan, just uh continuing on the path of the sort of like progress. You said last or yesterday, I think that it was could happen as early as this week or possibly next week. Can you give us a bit of a timetable? And then um I wanted to ask about South Korea specifically. They've said that they probably won't be able to make a comprehensive deal until early July because of their elections.
Japan also has elections. And to what extent are domestic factors complicating your efforts? Canada just had an election. You know, are you are you seeing that you might have to think about delaying the 90 days? Well, I I I would actually take the opposite tact that I think the from our talks that these governments actually want to have the framework of a trade deal done before they go into elections to show that they have successfully negotiated with the United States.
So we are finding that they are actually much more keen to come to the table, get this done and then go home and campaign on it. Sean, was there I'm sorry. Did you have a comment on whether it's going to something could happen this week or next week for for a deal? You know you said yesterday I again I think that we are very close on India and uh in India uh just a little inside baseball India in a funny way uh is easier to negotiate with than many other countries because they have very high tariffs and lots of tariffs.
So it's much easier to confront the direct tariffs when uh as we go through these unfair trade deals that have been put in over decades that the non-tariff trade barriers can be much more insidious and also harder to detect. So a country like India which has the you know posted and ready tariffs is much easier to negotiate with them.
So you know I think the India negotiations are moving well. Sean. Hi, Mr. Secretary. Um, so it was reported this morning that Amazon will soon display a little number next to the price of each product that shows how much the Trump tariffs are adding to the cost of each product. So, isn't that a perfect crystal clear demonstration that it's the American consumer and not China who is going to have to pay for these policies? I will uh take this since I just got off the phone with the president about Amazon's announcement.
Uh this is a hostile and political act by Amazon. Why didn't Amazon do this when the Biden administration hiked inflation to the highest level in 40 years? And I would also add that uh it's not a surprise because as Reuters recently wrote um Amazon Amazon has partnered with a Chinese propaganda arm. So this is another reason why Americans should buy American.
It's another reason why we are onshoring critical supply chains here at home to shore up our own critical supply chain uh and boost our own manufacturing here. Is Jeff Bezos still a Trump supporter? Uh look, I will not speak to the president's uh relationships with uh Jeff Bezos, but I will tell you that this is certainly a hostile and political action by Amazon.
And Secretary, if you have anything to add? Yeah, I I would also add that the bring bringing down the the terrible Biden inflation has been a priority for the first 100 days of the Trump administration and President Trump has done a great job of leading that uh since January 20th. Uh interest rates, mortgage rates are down.
Uh gasoline and energy prices are down. We're expecting the further decreases and as Caroline said uh the big tax on consumers that goes unnoticed is deregulation or regulation and we are deregulating and bringing that down. So you know from a household income point of view we would expect real purchasing increases that we've seen them over the first 100 days and we would expect that to accelerate.
We we are doing peace deals, trade deals, tax deals, and deregulating. And the deregulation is a longer lead time, but I think by the third and fourth quarters, that's really going to kick in. Thank you, Caroline. A question for you and Secretary Bess. We talk a lot about volatility uncertaining the marketplace, and the president has stated all along that he's more concerned about mainstream America, the American worker.
You just talked about deregulation and this entire fair trade and reciprocals. What is your message to the American people uh in terms of letting them get through this disturbance and the outcome being greater and a greater good for the American worker, the American people, the American families.
I would say trust in President Trump. Uh there is a reason he was reelected to this office. It's because of the historic success of his economic formula in the first term. As I laid out at the beginning of the briefing and the secretary has talked about and the president talks about every day, there's a proven formula that works.
Massive deregulation, uh, energy independence and tax cuts which are coming and the secretary is working very hard on that with our counterparts on Capitol Hill. Uh, if you want to talk about that, that's a huge deal to put more money back into the pockets of hardworking Americans. As for the fair trade deals the president is trying to negotiate, he's not just writing the wrong of the mess that he inherited from the past four years of the Biden administration, this is a mess that has been created for the past four decades that has sold out the middle class that
has moved jobs overseas. You think about our heartland, middle America, what towns used to look like, what they look like today. President Trump wants to restore the golden age and it's a process to do that and that process is underway. But he's put together a fantastic trade team. Secretary Besson, Secretary Lutnik, Jameson Greer, all working incredibly hard on this effort 247, but tax cuts are coming and that's key. And Mr.
Secretary, why don't you talk a little bit about that? Yep. So, it's really it's really a three-legged stool in the economic policy. It it's trade the its tax and its deregulation. So, we are in the midst of addressing, as Caroline said, these long-term trade imbalances. uh the tax uh bill is going much better than I would have thought when I the uh took office on January 28th and that's through President Trump's leadership that Speaker Johnson leader Thun are united uh Speaker Johnson we had a very good meeting yesterday uh with something called the
big six NEC director Kevin Hasset myself speaker Johnson leader thun uh committee chairman Jason Smith and Senator Crapo. And the tax bill is moving forward. It is going to give permanence to the 2017 tax cuts and job act, which will back to the question on certainty. It will give American business certainty.
It will give American people certainty. And then President Trump is also adding the things for working Americans that is talked about earlier. No tax on tips, no tax on overtime, no tax on social security, making auto payments deductible. So that will substantially address the affordability crisis. And you know the other thing that I would note and back to data is that the Vanguard, one of the largest money management firms in America, said that over the past 100 days, 97% of Americans haven't done a trade. And in fact,
individual investors have held tight while institutional investors have panicked. So in individual investors trust in in individual the investors trust President Trump. Megan in the back. Thank you. Can you detail for us exactly what we should expect as far as relief on the auto tariff front? And then further, Mr.
Secretary, should we expect other industries to also get relief the way we've now seen for auto and tech as well? I I'm not going to go into the details the of the uh auto tariff relief, but I can tell you that it will go substantially toward reshoring American auto manufacturing. And uh again, the goal here is to bring back the high quality industrial jobs to the US.
President Trump is interested in the jobs of the future, not the jobs of the past. You know, we we don't need to necessarily have a booming textile industry like where I grew up again, but we do want to have precision manufacturing and bring that back. And you know, another important very important function of this that does not get talked about enough is national security.
President Trump the his overriding the concern and belief is that economic security is national security. National security is economic security and we saw during co that our supply chains got cut off and we need to bring back a lot of those supply chains whether it's in semiconductors medicines the steel and we have to onshore those.
So, it's a combination of making trade free and fair and remedying this gaping national security hole that he was left with. And if I could on I would just add Megan, the president will sign the executive order on auto tariffs later today and we will release it as we always do. Go ahead.
Secretary, any negotiation with the European Union and is it hard to negotiate with the European Union? Pardon? Do you have any updates on the negotiation with the European Union? the I I'm more involved the in the Asian negotiations. My observation would be goes all the way back to Henry Kissinger's statement. When I call Europe, who do I call? So, we're negotiating with a lot of different interests.
Uh some of the European countries have put on an unfair digital service tax on our big internet provider. France and Italy, other countries, Germany and Poland don't have that. So we we want to see that unfair tax of one of America's great industries removed. So it's going to be a give and take. So they have some internal matters to decide before they can engage in an external negotiation.
Edward, thanks Caroline. Uh Mr. Secretary, so contacts I have in the business community say that they're they're basically frozen for long-term investment because of the uncertainty around tariffs. How long do you think President Trump has to make a deal before there's damage to the economy? Look, I I think that what we're seeing is that business leaders, they they've gone into a pause and I think we're going to give them great certainty on this tax bill.
And I think over the next couple of weeks, as as I said, we have 18 important trading relationships. We'll put China to the side. 17 they are in motion. And then as I said yesterday, I think there's a very good chance we're going to get this tax bill done. And the tax bill is going to be very powerful for domestic US investment.
So what we are going to do, one of the most powerful parts of President Trump's 2017 tax bill was full expensing of equipment. We are going to make that, as President Trump said in his speech to Congress, that will be retroactive to January 20th. The other thing that we are looking to add is full expensing for factories. So bring your factory back.
You can fully expense the equipment and the building. We will couple that with deregulation, cheap energy and regulatory certainty and that will continue to make the US the greatest destination for domestic and foreign investment. The president, if I can apologize, the president said that world leaders would like to meet with him in Rome in Vatican in Vatican City.
I'm sorry about uh trade other than President Zullinsky. Who did the president meet with and about trade and when could we get some of those deals? The president met with President Zinsky as you know which we talked about uh and the president continues to be engaged with uh his fellow foreign leader his fellow leaders around the world in the European Union.
You've seen many of them visit the White House. I want to harp on in closing the point the secretary just made on the campaign trail. president promised the American public that he was going to make America the best country in the world to do business again. The lowest taxes, lowest regulation, lowest energy costs of anywhere in the world.
And if you do business in the United States, you won't pay a tariff. You won't pay a price. That's not just good for companies around the world, but it's good for the American worker. That's what this team is focused so hard on every day. We have uh work to do. The golden age of America is underway. Uh, but as I pointed out in the beginning, there's a lot of reason for the American consumer, the American CEO, the American small business owner to be confident and optimistic about this president and where we're headed. So, you will hear
more from the president himself later this evening. He is traveling to Michigan, as you all know. He'll make a stop at the Air Force base with Governor Whitmer and then we will head to a rally tonight where you'll hear more from him directly. So, we'll see you in Michigan. Thank you guys. All right, there we go. Good morning.
Good morning. Thank everybody for being here. Scott Bent just got done uh with his press briefing. To be honest, they said nothing. They said absolutely nothing. I mean, like when guys, when I mean they said literally nothing, they said nothing. There was nothing there that was something we didn't know. Everything they said was a regurgitation of facts that they or of of of facts that they implied have been true and we got no progress on if we're closer to a trade deal.
The closest we got was someone asking about India and Bent said India is really good to negotiate. We like working with India. That's it. So I don't really know what the point of this was to be honest. Like genuinely I'm trying to think are we going to get some bad jobs data? We got Jolt at 10 a.m. Are we going to get something where the administration is trying to cover for and kind of uh front run? These are the main quotes from Bent.
So he said, "We will be speaking to 17 trading partners over the next few weeks." He said that on CNBC yesterday, so not new. Ignore the surveys. Look at real data when it comes to manufacturing. They've been saying that for a while. If the Chinese don't make a deal, they can lose 10 million jobs.
A, we don't know if that's true. B, they've been saying this for the past couple months that the Chinese economy will get decimated if they don't make a deal. So, it's not like that's new. Uh, next, they said President Trump creates strategic uncertainty in the trade talks to get better deals. We definitely know he creates uncertainty.
Uh is it strategic? We'll find out if we get some good deals, but like that's not new either. And then finally, he said, "We want long-term tariff revenues to replace income taxes. I think there's a strong chance we see this in the next tax bill." That also is not new. Trump has been talking about that for the past couple months.
So, I have no idea what the point of that was. Like, I thought maybe we're closer to a deal. Maybe they're going to announce like some real progress, but nothing. They said nothing. Now, here was the craziest part of this uh of this uh press briefing. If you're just joining, Amazon today announced that they will be showing tariff prices on their products.
Why is Amazon doing this? And Rob, thank you for the $5 chip chat. He's asking right here, uh Amit, if you were the CEO of Amazon, would you think it's a good idea to post tariff costs to consumers? 1,000%. If I'm Amazon and I'm known for low cost goods and fast shipping and someone buying a water bottle instead of paying $5, now they have to pay $7.50.
I want to make sure the consumer knows I'm not charging you the $ 250. I'm not trying to squeeze more money out of you. It's this macroexternal new world order paradigmatic approach that Trump has engaged in which is forcing me to charge you that 145% because Amazon's not even making that 250 in terms of their profits or their revenues.
it's going to the Department of Homeland Security to collect the revenues. So, in the context of tariffs, so from that perspective, I think you have to let the consumer know it's not your fault. This is what Bent had to say uh and the White House had to say about what Amazon is doing.
Um, so it was reported this morning that Amazon will soon display a little number next to the price of each product that shows how much the Trump tariffs are adding to the cost of each product. So, isn't that a perfect crystal clear demonstration that it's the American consumer and not China who is going to have to pay for these policies? I will uh take this since I just got off the phone with the president about Amazon's announcement.
Uh this is a hostile and political act by Amazon. Why didn't Amazon do this when the Biden administration hiked inflation to the highest level in 40 years? And I would also add that uh it's not a surprise because as Reuters recently wrote um Amazon Amazon has partnered with a Chinese propaganda arm. So this is another reason why Americans should buy American.
It's another reason why we are onshoring critical supply chains here at home to shore up our own critical supply chain uh and boost our own manufacturing here. Is Jeff Bezos still a Trump supporter? Uh, look, I will not speak to the president's uh relationships with uh Jeff Bezos, but I will tell you u that this is certainly a hostile and political action by Amazon.
And secretary, if you have anything to add. Yeah, I I would also add that the bring bringing down the the terrible Biden infliction has been a priority for the first 100 days of the Trump administration and President Trump has done a great job of leading that uh since January 20th. Uh interest rates, mortgage rates are down.
Uh gasoline and energy prices are down. We're expecting the further decreases. And as Caroline said, uh the big tax on consumers that goes unnoticed is deregulation or regulation. And we are deregulating and bringing that down. So, okay, that's absolutely ridiculous, dude. He's he says the big tax on consumers that gets I mean guys this is like insanity what he just said right there and I I'm a fan of Bent. I like him.
He says a lot of good things. He helps markets get more calm. But what he said right there is absolutely insane. His argument is that a bigger tax on consumers you and I when we buy a product that is more prevalent than a 145% tariff on a water bottle coming from China is the lack of deregulation. aka if there are higher regulations on uh goods and services because we're not in a deregulatory environment then that artificially makes products cost more money we can't calculate how much that makes products cost more money so there is a tax he's
arguing on consumers because of a strong regulatory environment that we don't know about and so that matters more than a quote unquote consumption tax based on tariffs a how do you quantify that like like how how many regulations do you have to put into some fancy formula to be able to come up with the fact that oh this water bottle costs $6 instead of $5 because of all these regulations we haven't deregulated from like like that in of itself it's just like even if there's some truth value to that claim the idea behind it is preposterous
because no administration would ever say there's this deregulation tax that they want companies to be able to pay attention to B we can easily calculate Amazon right here down 2% how much the water bottle costs with tariffs because we know the exact percentage tariff which is $145 5% currently right now in China.
Uh, and you can just add that to the cost of goods and then be able to clearly show to the consumer what it looks like. I mean, imagine Amazon trying to figure out the cost of all the regulations we have and then calculate that into a number that they can show you on your screen when you buy a product. It's insanity. Like, it makes no sense.
Like, Amazon would never do that because A, it's not easy to do that. It's not feasible to do that. B, it doesn't make sense to do that. What makes sense to do is say, "Hey, this is more expensive not because we want to upcharge you, but because of tariffs." I think that is a 1,000% reasonable thing to do as a US business.
It's incredibly transparent and at the end of the day, it's helping your brand because if people think Amazon gets more expensive, they're not going to want to shop at Amazon. Now, maybe the administration wants people to think that because Amazon does sell a lot of cheap stuff from China. So, that's a different question in terms of how you think of the administration's approach to American businesses and if they should uh continue pumping things from from China at low cost.
But the idea that Amazon as a as a business is wrong to show that transparency I think is ridiculous. Now granted uh the administration needed a response to that. That's why Caroline Levette had that. She she knew that question was coming. That's why she had that picture uh handy for the for the uh the the Amazon partner with the Chinese propaganda firm which I'm sure is true.
I mean a lot of companies partner with Chinese propaganda firms in China because there's 1.4 billion people. I'm sure Disney's partner with them. All these companies are partnered with them. But the broader question is why is Amazon increasing these price or showing these increased prices? And I think they have to in order to make sure people don't blame them for the uh increased in tariff prices that people have to pay.
Nonetheless, uh in terms of the actual uh uh press briefing, again, I I just don't think we got anything new. I don't think we got anything new. Yes, the article was three years old. It's from 2021. I just saw that right now. I don't know if they're still partnered with that same firm, but yeah, it's it's that that's the uh article they were referencing.
So, I don't know what the point of that was. I guess they wanted to just calm markets down a little bit by saying we're getting closer to deals. I don't think we are any closer to a deal yet. At least we don't know about that from the progress. I do think we're way closer than we were two weeks ago, especially with India and and maybe Japan.
But, um, at this point, markets have pumped dramatically since last week. We had four days in a row or three days in a row of 1.5% green. Yesterday, we closed green. So that's the first 5day stretch of being green in a couple months in uh 2025. But that's going to go away if we don't get deals soon. And I think the administration knows that.
So they're trying to buy some time, which is fair. It's smart on them to do. But in terms of getting any new details from that press conference, I don't think we got much out of that. So right here up 7%. If you're just joining, good morning. So crushed earnings. Uh uh the tech platform unfortunately did not grow as much as people wanted them to grow.
But at this point I think the tech the tech platform is becoming irrelevant because it's just not growing. It's up 10% year-over-year. But financial services is up more than double and the the lending is up 25%. Notice says we are off to a tremendous start in 2025. In Q1 we deliver durable growth and stronger returns driven by a relentless focus on product innovation and brand building.
6 cents EPS versus three expected. 772 million revenue versus 739 and 800,000 new members. Um, I expect SoFi to pump. I mean, I expect SoFi to to continue this momentum. SoFi tends to dump after a pre-market pump. I think these earnings are pretty good. Bent didn't like say anything crazy that would ruin the macro.
He didn't say anything new, but he didn't say anything that was like necessarily net bad, I think, for markets, uh, unless you're Amazon. So, um, I I I I think the macro is in a decent spot right now, at least for SoFi today. And we're just going to have to see if the momentum can hold going into the actual market open. Now, HIMS. So, um I bought HIMS yesterday.
I know this is a surprise to a lot of people. The reason I didn't announce it is because I bought it at like 8:50 p.m. I bought it late in the night. I didn't buy it on the market open or market close. And I bought it because I'm in a group chat with a couple friends and one of my friends, shout out to Nate, he uh he's been a Himsbull for a long time and he's just like he was just spamming, you got to buy him, you got to buy him, you got to buy him.
So, I was like, you know what? Screw it. I'm just going to buy 100 shares. So, I bought a 100 shares yesterday and um I didn't expect for it to do what it did, but it did what it did. And so, this was the buy 2858. Again, I think this was at like 8:50 p.m. or whatever time it was. And then, uh I sold it today at 40 bucks.
I mean, dude, it went up 40% in less than 24 hours. I think that's a bit ridiculous. So, I'm out of him. It was a good trade. I'm very uh happy for all the HIMS holders. In fact, Roy actually saw my tweet when I we were on the Robin Hood Weekly and when I posted the screenshot, we were in the middle of the podcast and he like said, "Oh, my did you just buy him?" And I was like, "Yeah, I just bought him because he saw the screenshot.
" But I'm out, dude. 40% is ridiculous in less than Are you kidding me? In less than 24 hours. Now, why is him up 40%. Well, they partnered with Novo Nordis, which uh is a great partnership. And the thesis behind the partnership is taking Novo's drugs and pairing it with Hims's distribution, which I think makes a lot of sense.
And the stock should be up, but should it be up 40%. I mean, or I I I don't think so. Granted, the stock is sold short 30%, so I can understand why there's a squeeze, but I think those squeezes are rather temporary instead of uh like it's squeezing to the moon. The last time we saw this happen was when HIMS pumped to 70.
Now, could that happen again? Sure. It wouldn't surprise me, and I would be very happy for him shareholders. It would have been a bad sell on my part because I could have made more, but I also don't want to take the risk for that because at the end of the day, I think 40% is is a is a bit aggressive.
So, I think a bunch of you guys said you sold Hins as well. Uh there was a bunch of people on at around 7:30 or 7:45 when this news broke. So, for those that took profits, congrats if you're holding on. I mean, it's still up 35% and maybe it continues to pump when the market opens, but it's not giving away too much of the of the overall gains here right now.
Now, and again, the reason I also sold it is because I'm not really long hymns. Again, I bought it kind of as a joke to my friend who's just been asking me to buy it. So, it wasn't like I did a little bit of DD and I agree it's one it's it's cheap. I've been saying that for the past couple of weeks.
It's very cheap uh compared to their growth rates. And GLP is not even the story. GLP is just like a cherry on top in terms of the actual healthcare platform story. But it also wasn't like, you know, super long conviction. I wanna I want to keep the name. So, if it gets back into the high 20s again, I'll buy again.
If not, then I'm happy for him shareholders. We do have earnings on May 5th. So, if they crush earnings, that could be another catalyst. Uh, but that is the reason this stock currently is up 40% um right now. And for those that bought at like $10, $5, man, I know a lot this thing was stuck at like $3 for like a year.
I know a lot of you guys are OG him. I mean, you know, there's probably no reason to sell on this if you believe there is a very long-term vision on this company. We got 10 minutes until the market opens. We also had Spotify earnings. Unfortunately, Spotify missed EPS by 56%. I still don't know why. I think it's because some of their operating margins went down because they have to pay out podcasters.
They're kind of doing this new YouTube monetization program, but for podcasting on Spotify and so that means they have to pay creators, which means they're not going to be as profitable. I think it's a good long-term story for Spotify, but short-term that's going to hurt their margins. They're down about 7%. Also, MAUs came in a little bit worse than expected.
Spotify has almost 700 million users, though. I think they're at like 670 now. So, they're going to get to a billion users in the next couple years. If you're long this stock, I don't think this quarter was a reason to sell. And I still think they're going to be more recession resistant like a Netflix versus some of these other names.
But this one down 7% on not the uh not the best earnings. I mean, would you buy Google right now? Yes. I like Google. Bought it last week before earnings. I think it keeps getting disrespected by the market. It's basically at the price I bought it at. I bought it at 158. It's at 159.
So yeah, I mean I the reason I didn't sell Google when it pumped like 167 is because I I just I I think going long on Google is not crazy, especially at these valuations. So, uh, Google right here, 159. We got big tech earnings, uh, tomorrow and Thursday. Today is still going to be a long day. We have Grab at 7 p.m. Um, we have um, Snapchat. I have a swing trade on that.
We have um, uh, First Solar. We have FICO after the bell. We got a lot more companies reporting today. Jason's going to be on for technical Tuesday. We also have Starbucks. So, I think the market close might be like seven hours or something. Then we're going to start at 3:45 and then if Grab reports at 7, we might just stay on until the call ends, which would be at 9.
So, it's going to be a long market close today, but we got a lot of earnings to get into and a lot of stuff to look at. Also, Visa today after the bell. So, there's going to be a ton of stuff to analyze as well. Uh, eight more minutes until we get into the market open. Lutnik is also going to be live tonight at 2 PM.
Uh, now I thought Lutnik would be live because Bent would announce a really big deal and then Lutnik would like double down on what Bent had to say. That's why I thought they're bringing him back to the media because they've kind of kept him away for the past two weeks. Now that Bessent said basically nothing.
Um, I don't know why Lutnik is going on TV and I'm a little afraid of him going on TV, but at 2 p.m. I guess we're going to see what Lutnick has to say. Also, Basense said uh this was another quote. This was I thought a very interesting quote right here. Um, retail is buying the dip. They trust Trump even if institutional investors don't.
So he basically said individual investors have still engaged in the market because they trust Trump policies. And he says our data is showing that institutional investors are the one that are showing more weakness because they don't trust him. He's right about that. Retail's been buying the dip pretty aggressively.
Uh 40 billion in the month of April and we or in the month of March. We'll get April numbers soon. But um yeah, but since acknowledging, hey, that the institutions are are scared of the volatility whereas retail investors are engaging it. Um I guess we're going to see who ends up being right in this situation.
I still think, you know, we could have a bullish market. I know a lot of people that are DCAing believes that believe that's the case, but we got to get deals soon. And until we get these deals, it's going to be hard to see this momentum continue to improve. We have Meta tomorrow. We have uh Meta's down about 1% right here. We have Microsoft tomorrow along with Robin Hood.
That's going to be a big one tomorrow. Meta, Microsoft, Robin Hood, and then Amazon and Apple on Thursday. Now, Amazon is down 2% right here. They're going to have to talk a lot about these tariffs and the implications of these tariffs. The funny thing about this is I think the Chinese tariffs are going to be rolled back anyway, the 145% sooner or later.
So, even if Amazon's displaying the tariff prices, the question is how long will it be a strain on the consumer? If Trump ends up going from 145% to 50%, I think Amazon's still going to display the prices. If it was like 10% or 20%, I don't think Amazon will make that big of a deal of showing like the extra couple bucks you're paying on every product.
But if it's 145, that means things will get more expensive. Consumers will have to bear that cost and Amazon's probably going to want to not take the the brunt of that brand uh pain by by by people assuming that Amazon's raising prices. So, I think it makes sense to show that when tariffs are this high, but if tariffs get rolled back, they're probably not going to show a an alternative tariff price on every single product.
Position on Snap is 1,000 shares at 870. I I I don't know, dude. I think this thing pumps back to 112. If I'm not a TA expert, but if you look at the chart, last time we were anywhere near below 8 was September 2023. We we were on April 8th, but that doesn't really count because the whole market was down and it was it was down for a day and then we just rebounded very quickly from it.
Snap would have to colossally mess up earnings and uh I think given the multiple it's trading at right now and given the growth in DAU MAU their gross profit positive and the SNAP plus program which is a nice juicy subscription revenue program for them is growing dramatically. I think that's enough to get it back to like 112 which is where it usually trades at.
Uh I think the discount at 8 is is primarily due to the tariff volatility. So unless they say something really bad about ad ad budgets or something I I think Snap's going to be okay. But today after the bell, we're going to find out what happens with with Snapchat. Uh UPS and Intel, we have five minutes until the market opens.
This news was pretty interesting this morning. So UPS also had earnings and their earnings were okay. Not amazing, but also not the best. UPS did announce a 20,000 cut in terms of their workforce. The reason I me mentioned Intel is because Intel also cut 20% of their workforce uh last week. Uh now UPS is announcing 20,000 jobs, 20,000 staff and cutting over 70 facilities.
Uh so they say the cuts are linked to the changing trade environment, the CEO said and they plan to shutter 73 facilities and save 3.5 billion as demand remains soft. UPS is cutting 20,000 staff and shutting over 70 facilities. This is the first example that we are seeing. Intel again cut 20%. UPS is cutting 20,000.
The first example of we're seeing with a company around demand and linking that demand to layoffs. Like this is the first time we're really seeing a company explicitly say we are seeing softening demand, which makes sense if you look at all the consumer confidence data that we've been looking at over the past couple weeks.
And as a result, we're cutting down 20,000 jobs and removing 73 facilities. So, that's not good. Now, granted, there was a big Bloomberg article yesterday on uh UPS and a rumor that UPS is now working with Figer, Figure AI, the humanoid robotics company, to start deploying their robots into the company. Even if this rumor is true, I don't think that they laid off 20,000 people or they're planning to lay off 20,000 people just because they're deploying humanoid robots.
That's definitely something that's possible, but I think that's still a long time away even if this partnership is real. Uh for them to say we're going to cut off 20,000 jobs. I think it's more so a question of demand because the robots are not going to be operational tomorrow and you don't have 20,000 robots that can immediately be deployed.
So you would need humans to handle those packages. Well, if you don't have the demand for those humans because the demand is weakening as the CEO said, you can't have those jobs anymore. So this is I think UPS is the first company to show us the Trump tariffs are actually having a impact on jobs in a meaningful way.
UPS stock right here relatively flat down about 1%. I guess the layoffs kind of softened the blow on earnings so that the market thought at least they're going to save their margins somehow if they're seeing demand go down. Uh UPS's numbers uh beat by 8% on EPS and beat by 3% on revenue. Again, guidance was the bigger issue here when it comes to demand, but overall topline and bottom line was not uh was not as bad.
So, you got uh you got you got UPS right here down about 1%. Now, we also had some other earnings. Royal Caribbean 271 versus 23. They beat by 7%, 3.9 billion versus 4.0 billion on revenue. Royal Caribbean stock is up 3%. So, that's good for the cruise lines, showing that demand is not necessarily slowing down as dramatically as people thought in terms of what the tariffs would have on an impact.
And then we had PayPal, which uh look, revenue is growing at 1% year-over-year at this point. And I just don't think they're going to get a multiple attached to them if they're growing by 1%. So they missed revenue by 1%, they grew EPS by 15%, but revenues overall growth is up 1%. EPS is up 23%, stocks down about 3%. They bought back um 1.
5 billion worth of stock in the past 12 months. They bought back six billion worth of stock. At this point, I think the buybacks are not really helping the narrative. What would help is maybe a dividend, which is Steve's idea. Steve thinks they should stop the buyback and put a dividend. And I can't say I disagree.
I think at least people would say, "I'm getting a yield off this stock that is guaranteed versus a buyback is a yield, but only if the stock actually appreciates in value. Now, PayPal just went green." All right, there you go. So, PayPal up 2%. It was down 3%, bounced off 62, now to 66.2. So, up about 2% right there. But I do think more people would be happy if they got a guaranteed yield versus a uh presumed yield from the stock going up with with the buybacks.
So that's what we got on earnings today. We got about 30 seconds until the market opens. Robin Hood's up about 1%. Hims is up 35%. Again, congrats to him shareholders. This is pretty incredible. This is based on the Novo Partnership and maybe it squeezes, who knows, to 4550 as soon as the market opens or maybe it dumps, but we're going to find out in the next 20 seconds.
And then SoFi is up 7% 1412 great quarter triple beat raised guidance. Now it's just a question of if the market can continue to build on that momentum for soi. All right, here we go. 9:30 Tuesday, April 29th. Thank you everybody for being here. The stock market is now open. All right, wake your ass up. Let's get into it. SoFi 1403 up 6.23% on the day.
So Soi opens up about 7.2%. 14.3. Let's check Hims real quick. Hims is dumping a little bit from where it was. It was up 37. Now it's up 31. So you got some people selling to strength right here. We got to see if it can hold this 30% or if it reverses course. PayPal up 2.3%. Royal Caribbean up 3.4%. SoFi still up 7.2%.
1420 I'm going to check resistance at 15 in a second on SoFi and see what that is looking like. Hoodie 1.4 4963. Spotify is down 7%. Nvidia is down 1%. Palenteer basically flat. Grab is down.32. Waste management they had a decent earnings. Nothing too crazy yesterday. They're down about 3.2%. Uh NXPI they're down 8%. They didn't have the best earnings.
This is a semiconductor company. Not the best. Uh getting hit a little bit more by the tariff. So that one is down. Uh PayPal up 1.9, SoFi 7%, HIMS is going down 27%. All right, so people are definitely selling into that strength. We peaked at 4272 in the pre-markets right now at 3665 uh up about 27.5%.
Currently right now, where is big tech? Meta is down.3. Googs is down.2. Amazon again, Bent just said Amazon's being political. That's down 1.65%. market might be buying that news even though it's red right here bouncing from 182.88 and then Microsoft right here is flat. So big tech relatively flat. So still holding on to 7.5.
It's not giving it up that easily and HIMS is giving up the astronomical gains. But I don't think anyone can be upset that it's up 27% here right now in the uh in the pre-markets. Again, I did sell at 40. I just felt like 40% was a bit aggressive for a stock that I don't even know that much about.
But if it even ends the day up 10 15% I think as a long-term shareholder you can't be that upset when it comes to him. Snapchat right here up about 1.76%. Paler goes green 11480. We hit 115 yesterday I think after hours. We just hit 115 right now for a second. Got rejected right at 115 but we are at 11480 again. Palenteer they've got earnings uh in a week and the market continues to show them strength.
Look at SoFi go. So now up 8%. Let's check resistance at 15 and see what we got. on SoFi. Cracking 15 I think psychologically would be very very exciting for this one. $15. The share wall that we have to overcome at 15 is 168,000 shares. 168,000 shares. That's a bit aggressive, but SoFi's volumes, you know, could easily get there.
The stock trades like yesterday it traded 90 million shares. Today it's already traded 25 million shares. because the average volume is 51 million shares. So, I mean 168,000 shares would not be would not be that crazy. I check resistance on Robin Hood Gold. They have level two market data.
There's some other websites that give it. I pay five bucks a month for it, but if you have Robin Hood, you can use level two market data to see the resistance. Snapchat right here at nine bucks. Microsoft at 391. Hoodie at 4950. Pound chair. Wow. 115. My goodness. The street loves it. 11523. Again, I just don't think the move we've seen from the bottom, which has been 74% on Palunteer, is retail.
Like maybe I'm underestimating how much retail is buying this thing, but that's a lot of market cap for retail. I just I don't know. It's just a lot of buying pressure on retail. I'm sure retail definitely had something to do with it, but this is uh I don't know. This feels a little bit more like institutions that feel they missed it and they don't want to miss the runup and they're going into earnings and they think it's going to be good earnings.
Now, could it tank on earnings even with all this uh momentum? Yeah, because it's maybe pumping a little bit too much before earnings, but who knows what if we get an Nvidia type of quarter? Well, I mean, I'm calling for 40% on the entire year. If they give us 40% of this quarter, I think that would be insane. I'm not expecting that.
I'm expecting more so like 32 33%. That would be really nice, but I think the street's expecting a big quarter. And so, if we get it, we get it. If we don't, we don't. I know a lot of us are long on this name, but Pounder right here obviously getting a ton of momentum here right now. Meta right here at 549.
Google at 159. Amazon at 185. Amazon still down about 1.2%. Wow. SoFi 1440. 9.2% baby. Let's check on the SoFi options and see how they're doing. Um, all right. Cool. We're up 320% on these. So, again, this is my SoFi exposure for the year. 100 call debit spreads for $15 and 20 for 1520 strikes. If SoFi gets to 20 bucks, we will take 3500 and turn it into 50,000.
But we got to get to 20 by that expiration 11626. So right now up about 325%. We got about seven months to get to 20 bucks. And if we can, this would be a really awesome trade. Bought those options when SoFi was seven bucks back in September. But now the question is if the market can continue to reward SoFi on their execution. 9.3%.
Look, we've seen this before and it tends to dump. But right now, 5 minutes into the market open, it's not dumping. It's showing strength and maybe it does dump eventually throughout the day. Maybe Lutnik says something and it's bad, but I mean strength looks relatively decent. Even if it falls one or two% from here and we're up 7% on the day, I think that would be a massive win uh on an earnings day for SoFi.
PayPal right here lost most of its gains. Now it's up half a percent. It was up 3%. Robin Hood right here 4932. Grab just went green. Um Bitcoin 94. Oh, not did mention they're getting ready to bring crypto back and they didn't include crypto in their guidance. So, if they do bring crypto back pretty soon, hopefully in the next couple months, that could be a tailwind as well for for SoFi.
Uh, where is Hims? Where is Hims? Hims is Yeah, Hims is dumping from the top. It's not dumping because it's up 25% on the day, but it was up 40%. People are taking profits. It's normal. I think that's totally normal. If it ends anywhere near these levels on the day, I think that would be very exciting for him. Palter now 11397.
That one's going red. Celsius going red. Arc is going red. Cheesecake going red. Where is Archer? Archer is up a little bit 35%. SoFi still 1440. Royal Caribbean great earnings that's up 2%. Microsoft flat. And then Robin Hood right here 4917. Where is the S&P? S&P is down about a quarter of a percent. Oh, Tesla.
Where is Tessie? Tesla is also down 2%. So Tesla was at 275 yesterday. Now it's at 285. It was at 295. And Tesla is down right here on the day. SMH, the semis are all red pretty much. Semis is uh the ETF is down 1%. All of them are down about 2 to 3%. SMCI down 1%, AMD down half a percent, Lamb down one, Dell down half, Broadcom down half, ASML down 1.2.
TSM the only one that's green currently right now. All right. I mean, look, you can't be mad if you're a HIM shareholder. like it's up 23% off of a partnership which should be good for the earnings but it's not like the earn it's not like the Novo Nord dis partnership is going to increase the earnings by 40%.
I don't think so at least not anytime soon. So the stock going up by 40% was a bit aggressive but stocks still up 20%. And you know it's a green day at the end of the day so I don't think anyone can complain as even if it holds five or 7% on the day I think for longs that would be good. So 1437 still holding above that 14 range.
S&P red Tesla 281 and then Robin Hood just above that $49 level. Chris says it's also not exclusive. I didn't know that. Okay, that could be another uh you know argument to poke a hole in terms of the Novo partnership that HIMS is not exclusively distributing their drugs which yeah also is another reason why 40% seemed a bit aggressive as soon as it came out.
Now, the reason I think it pumped 40% is because um it's it's short. So, all I mean, it's 30% sold short. So, all the shorts probably got super scared of the partnership and maybe started covering as much as they could and that maybe created the pump or people just started buying because they thought now the shorts would have to be squeezing so much that they should get in as soon as possible and that led to people buying it at 40 bucks, 42 bucks, whatever.
But maybe the partnership itself didn't justify that 40% gain. So, right here, 1435. PayPal just went red. PayPal just went red on the day Google is dumping. Whereas Google, wow, Google 1.5%. What is that on Google? It was down like 0.05. That's got to be It's got to be a headline in my opinion. Why is Google's dumping like this? What is going on on Googles? We knew about the UK find last week, the antitrust thing on Google.
Um, I don't see a headline yet, but it looks like there's something. Google right there down 1.6. six. It is now lower than what I bought it. I bought it at 158. Now it's at 157.9. So really, the market just did not care about those earnings. Robin Hood goes red as well. SoFi might start to get some weakness because the whole market's going red. Yep.
SoFi right there. There you go. 1426. Uh Crowd Strike's up a little bit. Verizon's up a little bit. PaloAlto, they acquired a company for $700 million yesterday. So the street was happy with that acquisition. That's up 1.15%. Netflix down about 1.2% 2% but still basically at all time highs at 1100 and the rest of the market starting to get a little bit of weakness.
Rocket Lab's down, SMCI is down. Rivian is down. So 1424 on the day. Yeah, I still don't see the reason for Google. Still don't see the reason for Google, but there's got to be something. There's got to be something. Jolts is at 10 a.m. Correct. Jolts is at 10 a.m. So, Jolts is also something, you know, and I kind of feel that maybe Bent is speaking about uh or maybe they did this whole press conference with the media, NASDAQ down half a percent.
Because Jolts might not be that good and they're trying to, you know, trying to show, hey, things are going well even if even if uh even if job listings are going down in in in the in the United States. They did put an emphasis on the 345,000 jobs in terms of non-farm payrolls that we've added over the past couple months.
Uh Trump's also speaking at Michigan tonight. Also, one piece of news that went under under the radar yesterday is the Wall Street Journal article that talked about Trump rolling back the auto tariffs. Now, it's not confirmed. We have to wait until what Trump says tonight in Michigan, which I think the reason that Wall Street Journal got these sources is because he's going to Michigan, which is the auto manufacturer capital of the United States.
Um but uh what they reported yesterday is that Trump is expected to lower auto tariffs so they don't pile up with uh tariffs like steel and aluminum which are already 25%. He said if companies pay the Wall Street Journal is reporting that if companies pay a 25% tariff on cars from countries this month they can get some of that money back in terms of a refund aka they're able to kind of forego the tariffs that they've already paid which to me is like a pretty big roll back.
And then they said for car parts from other countries, there's a 25% tax starting May 3rd. If a company makes cars in the US, they can get that money back like 3.75% of that car's price in the first year, then 2.75% in the next year, and after that, no more refunds. So, if Trump to commemorate his 100 days in office mentions that um that uh he's going to be lowering auto tariffs, a it's it's it's again him folding on tariffs that he was saying or like super important, which it goes back to my thesis that he's going to be rolling back a lot more than just auto
tariffs because I think the administration knows this is unsustainable. And B, that should be good for a GM, a Ford, and a Tesla, but there's no real confirmation on that yet. So, we have to see in his rally in Michigan if he makes that a priority to be able to make that announcement. Tesla right here down about 1.
3% on the day 281 currently right now. The libs also won in Canada. That is correct. And Pierre lost his seat if I'm not wrong. So not only did he lose the election, he lost his seat in the Conservative party. So it was a pretty aggressive beating from the Liberals to the Conservatives. and Mark Carney uh is now going to be the next prime minister of Canada.
So, uh Liberals continue to win and um it looks like the conservative movement has died down in Canada. It it got close at like 900 p.m. Like even the Kali polls started becoming 50/50, which means if you swing traded it, there was a lot of alpha for you to get in terms of that arbitrage. But by the end of it, it became pretty much an aggressive beating by uh by Carney.
SoFi right here back to 1440 up 9%. Went down by 7% or went down to 7% now it's back up to 9%. So SoFi still holding on to its momentum not really showing a ton of weakness yet. Uh HIMS earnings is next week. Uh it's not today. Snapchat earnings is going to be today along with FICO, Starbucks, and Visa. But HIMS is not today. uh probably next week and then I think May 2nd if I'm not wrong or no maybe maybe it might be May 4th.
Uh and then Grab is is is going to be today. So I'll be live for for Grab. S&P just had a big green candle then it went away. S&P look at that. They jumped up to like 550 then it went back down to 549.8. Now it's kind of struggling to maintain some of that green. It's going back and forth uh very quickly.
We're going to get the Jolts data in about 15 minutes and then we'll see how the market interprets that as well. Let me give the expectations for Jolts. So, the market is thinking on Jolts um 7.4 million jobs. The market wants 7.4 million jobs. If we come in lower than that, then that means we probably are going to see unemployment rise, which means JPAL needs to start cutting.
Even though he's not going to cut in May, but I think he should. Uh, but if we get more than that, either they're ghost jobs or we we we legit don't have a labor problem in the United States, which has kind of been the narrative over the past couple years. It's like, are the jobs fake or do we actually just have these many excess jobs? And so, Jilt will give us a little bit better of an understanding on that um, pretty soon.
Jake, thanks for the $5 super chat. Have you seen the ARCVX venture fund? And what are your thoughts on exposure to SpaceX anthropic figure? Not the biggest ARC fan, but is it worth it? Uh I am not a fan of these companies or these funds. And the number one reason for that is because there's no transparency.
If you're going to invest in a private company, you need to know at least something about what you're investing in. You have no idea what price ARC bought the valuations at. Uh you can't see any of the data room, the financials, and like some of the stuff if you're a private investor, you have full access to if you're investing through a a a correct SPV.
There's a lot of bad SPVS, which are special purpose vehicles, but the good ones actually give you access to the data. So, I've never been a fan of the venttor funds. Uh, but if you literally think SpaceX is going to like$10 trillion dollars or something and you just want to get exposure in some way, then those ARC funds are a way to to get exposure.
If you just like you really feel heavily convicted in it, but in general, I don't think these VC ETFs are the way to get exposure to private investments. I'd rather use something like Hive, which is a secondary platform where you can just buy the shares outright, even if you have to pay a little bit more of a premium.
So right here, 1435, that's up 8.9%. So still holding on. Snapchat up 8.96, 1.42%. 42% and then hoodie 4930 that's up 78 here right now. How will Jolt be good if we just laid off almost 100,000 people between Intel and UPS? I agree. I think Jolt is not going to be the best. I mean UPS laying off 20,000 people today. Intel laying off 20% of their workforce and UPS today officially announcing that the tariffs are decreasing demand which is why we're getting rid of 73 facilities and and firing 20,000 people.
that that's a real concern. That's a real issue, right? Um and I would imagine it's not because UPS's business is struggling. It's because the overall environment for activities uh in in terms of business activity, capital spending, and then ordering of goods is going down, which is actually not the best news for Amazon.
Now, there can be an argument that Amazon is so much more of a behemoth than UPS because UPS relies on companies like Amazon for orders that Amazon's vertical integration is um having a good impact on their overall demand whereas on UPS it's it's like front running them. But still, you can make an argument that maybe people aren't ordering as many goods anymore, which is why UPS is not delivering as many packages.
Shopify is basically flat right now. I think the UPS news is also not bullish for Shopify because Shopify sells stuff online and if UPS says, "Hey, demand's coming down." Maybe Shopify is not shipping out as many orders because of demand coming down. So, that could have some implications right there on Shopify and Amazon.
Uh, Nvidia, are we green? We are green on Nvidia. We are green on Nvidia. Now, remember the headline yesterday on Nvidia was that China's coming up with a chip that's going to be uh very powerful. Not as powerful as the GB200 like Blackwell, but it is going to start to rival the H100. I think that at the end of the day, if you're an Nvidia shareholder, you have to look past the China revenue.
You have to assume you're not getting it anymore and still believe the AI revolution will be more than enough for Nvidia to keep growing at these astronomical growth rates. By the way, the S&P just went green as well. Nvidia and the S&P going green. It looks like either ALOS are getting involved or maybe we're going to get some news that's causing people to start buying.
But yeah, for Nvidia, you just you got you got to believe in a deeper capex AI story um versus versus like the the China part of the business. Um okay, let's see what else do we have. AMD, where's AMD? AMD is that going green as well? That's up.3%. Okay, so AMD pretty much with Nvidia going green. Are all the semis going green? Half of them are going green.
Half of them are still red. Semis are not really reporting yet. That's going to happen in about two weeks. We're going to get a lot more semi companies. Crypto, Bitcoin, 94,000 of the day. By the way, the ETF inflows on Bitcoin have been just phenomenal. Uh last week we had 300 million, 900 million, 900 million, 400 million, 300 million, and yesterday we had 600 million of inflows.
So, people are buying up the Bitcoin ETFs. Again, this is the first time we've had seven days in a row that have been positive in about two months. And obviously, Michael Sailor's putting in a bid on Bitcoin as well. So, Bitcoin holding up its momentum and that's helping some of the crypto names. Micro Strategy up a little bit on the day, 371.
And then Coinbase up about 02% on the day as well. Max 7s are pretty much all red except for Apple and Microsoft and Nvidia. Tesla's red, Amazon down, Google still don't know why that's down as much. And then Meta basically flat uh on the day. Um let's see what else. What else? What else do we have? Why is Nvidia selling the B20 chip instead of the H20? Honestly, I'm not sure.
I I I didn't even know they were allowed to sell the the B20 into uh into China. I've got to do more research on that. I'm not sure if that's fully accurate either. if they're able to sell the well they're not able to sell any chip into China as of now from my understanding if they're I mean like that's the reason they're taking that $5.
5 billion charge off so I don't think Nvidia is able to sell any chip into China but I'll have to check on if there is any exception for B20 I would assume that the export controls are going to be a way for Trump to control Nvidia as a pawn in this tariff trade war and I don't think they're going to be allowed to trade chips or sell chips into into China for a very long time so I I think it's going going to take a while. C uh as C is up 7%.
This is Jack Mer's Bitcoin holding company, Caner Equity Partners. By the way, I don't think this has to do anything with uh Caner Fitzgerald. People were saying Lutnick's involved with this. I don't think so. I think the name is Caner, but I don't think it has to do with Caner Fitzgerald, the financial services firm. I don't know why it's called Caner Equity Partners, but that's what it's basically like a spa almost for for a Bitcoin company.
It's up like 200% over the past week. That one is up about 7% on the day. Again, their business model is just to buy more Bitcoin and increase their Bitcoin per share versus earnings per share, as they call it, to be a creative to shareholders. SoFi losing a little bit of steam from 1440 to 1420, but I don't think anyone can be that upset about it. Oh, it's their spa.
They're getting 2% as the sponsor. Okay, so that makes sense. I didn't know that. Okay, so Caner Fitzgerald is sponsoring Caner Equity Partners the Spack. Interesting. Huh? Lutnik did do an interview yesterday with Bitcoin magazine for like 30 minutes and he kept talking about how amazing Bitcoin is.
That interview makes a little bit more sense now knowing that his firm is sponsoring the spa. Okay, there you go. So, uh, Lutnik's definitely incentivized to pump the Bitcoin narrative. That's for sure. So, I guess uh I guess that's why that one is also getting some some momentum. Uh what else? What else? What else do we have? What else do we see? Oh, we got a headline right here on tariffs.
China waves tariffs on US ethane imports, sources say. That's from Reuters. That's from Reuters. Interesting. That's good news for the US. Yeah. China waves tariffs on US ethane imports. Seeing that from Bloomberg right now. Okay, so that's not bad. Maybe that's why that the S&P just went from red to green. You got a nice tariff headline on a deescalation of the trade war.
I would imagine the reason they're waving tariffs on US ethane imports is because they need ethane, which makes sense. And this is kind of Trump's plan is that they need so much from us that they're going to wave their tariffs in order to get a better deal. Yeah. They want our gas. Exactly. They need our natural gas as well. So, it seems like that could be the argument for that right now.
Yes, China caved on this one. The US has caved a bunch of times when we took away the 145% tariffs and we took away auto tariffs and iPhone tariffs and all that stuff, but China caving on ethane imports. But this is why the the whole trade war with them is so stupid. Like, China needs us and we need them. They need our ethane.
We need a lot of their cost of labor on cheap goods. So it's like like we should be getting to a reasonable deal pretty soon because we need each other. Which is one of the reasons, you know, people talk about World War II and the US and China going to war with each other. We need each other too much to be going to war with each other.
Now could a war happen? Of course. But like we are way too dependent on each other. They need our consumer. We need their cost of goods. And uh the idea that we would nuke each other, I mean at that point it's just suicide. And in a way that kind of is a form of mutually assured destruction. that stops us from from going into war.
SoFi right here 7.3% again giving up some of its pump but still green up 7% on the on the day. Gro says China imported roughly 46% of the US ethane imports. Yeah. So it seems like they probably need it. Like the Joker needs Batman. Exactly. Dude, one of the best reasons that I one of the reasons that I love the Dark Knight is because Batman can't kill the Joker, right? A because he's too good of a person and he doesn't want to kill him even though he has multiple chances.
B, you could argue that Batman needs a purpose. And just like the Joker needs a purpose and so he wants to create all this chaos and then have someone try to fight him and then try to that the Joker can't kill Batman either. He doesn't want to kill Batman. He wants to keep engaging in the fight. So I mean I mean like maybe China and the US need each other so much that there's no purpose to engaging in a trade war because at the end of the day they need to they need to depend on each other for economic mobility and economic
growth. Cadence Design Systems, this one's up 5%. This is a semiconductor company in the design space for chips. So this one up 5%. They had a pretty good earnings. IBM, by the way, is investing 150 billion over the next 5 years. I don't know why uh Trump didn't tweet about this. You would think Trump would would be boasting about IBM investing 150 billion, but he didn't make a point of that yet.
Um, but last night there was a press release saying they are getting ready to invest more in the United States. So, that is definitely not horrible news for investments and for the United States. Chad says, "What is your lower purpose?" The lower purpose clip by Karp, for those that haven't seen it, you need to see it.
It is the It is the best clip of all time. It is. It is. When Iliano, he did this like March Madness bracket. It ended up losing in the finals to the Coke Sellers because that one is also like a very good clip. But, you know, the lower purpose clip is also not a horrible one. Here's the clip right here for for anyone who hasn't seen this.
It's a nice little uh nice little clip before we get into Palunteer earnings. This is Karp when he was asked about his purpose in life. Purpose. And I also think you often need a lower purpose. Like the higher purpose for me, what kind of what's the lower purpose? Well, I love the idea of getting a drone and having light fentinyl laced urine spraying on analysts who tried to screw us. So that's my lower purpose.
And uh yeah, but you know, I actually told Karp that I loved when he said that when uh we were we were we were at AIPCON and I was walking with him and I was like, "By the way, the fentinel line with Sorcin was incredible." And he just started laughing. He was like, "Yeah, that was a good one.
" I was like, "Yeah, that was a good one. That was that was a pretty good one." So, we got earnings coming up soon for pound chair. May 5th, baby. May 5th. We'll see what happens. Regardless of what happens to the stock, you know, whether it goes up or down, at the end of the day, I think I think this is going to be a good quarter.
And because I'm invested in this truly for the long term, I I kind of just don't care what happens to the stock. I really care about can they keep showing US commercial growth and can they keep showing government growth, which which accelerated really nicely last quarter from like uh 12% to 24% in US government.
Can they get that closer to 30% because if they do, I think it's going to be very exciting for the for the government business. Speaking of uh Pounder, by the way, at the Toronto meetup, there are these four guys who do a lot of business together. They have like a holding company and they have multiple businesses in the city. Uh they are big pounder investors.
They uh showed me a video of them watching the stream that we do on pounder earnings and uh it was literally a Super Bowl party, dude. They had the pounder flag in the background. They had food, they had chips, and every everyone was sitting on a big couch and they showed the big screen TV as the stock started going up.
And as soon as we gapped up from I think it was like 83 to 95 and then eventually we got to 100 after hours, the whole crowd went crazy. It was it was almost like like like I don't know your your favorite football team just won the Super Bowl. Like it was that crazy. So it seems like a lot of you guys celebrate earnings in a in a in a Super Bowl party type of way just like we do on the stream.
And you know last earnings was a pretty strong one. But the difference between last earnings and this one was that last earnings we dumped before earnings. this earnings were pumping hard. So, we're gonna have to see how the stock ultimately reacts based on the movement of it going into earnings. Bitcoin right here 94.
9 still green. Um, Boeing is up 183. Where is SoFi? SoFi right here. Wow. 13. Wow. Holy crap. That Did that red candle happen in like 30 seconds? S&P is still green, so it's not macro. That one's just people selling SoFi. That one's just people taking profits right here. SoFi 1440 to 1393. Yes, totally normal 100%. It's It's not abnormal to see it go from up 9% to up 5%.
But still, that was a uh pretty aggressive candle to the downside. Uh Jolt is coming out in 2 minutes. That can either make or break this market. Um okay, let's do a poll right here in the chat. What do you think? We got about two minutes until Jolts. Job openings in America. That's what Jolts is. Above 7.4 million, below 7.4 million. 7.
4 million is the expectation. Or 7.4 million itself. So flat, above or below. What do you think? Flat above or below? Last time we had 7.56 million. Right now the market thinks 7.4, four, which means the market's expecting us to lose about 150,000 jobs, which I think is reasonable given the uh demand destruction, consumer confidence surveys, the uh the the the the tariff volatility decreasing hiring from employers.
So, Nvidia just went red. So, right here, 1377. Now, we got a more aggressive red candle. It wouldn't be crazy to see that Jolt number start to go a bit lower. Now, we might pump if we get a bad jolts because that might signal that JPAL should cut and rate cuts are good. So, it might be one of those bad news is good news type of moments, but we're going to find out in about 35 seconds.
I'm also going to put the Fed probabilities on my screen so we can see immediately um if the rate in if the rate probabilities for May increase. Right now, the probabilities are 7% in May. 7% in May for a cut. All right, here we go. 12 seconds. Let's see. Let's see what we can get on Jolts. 7.4 is the expectation right here.
S&P is still uh just went red. Just went red. Oh, what's the I don't S&P is going down a bit. What's the number? Wow. Wow. 7.192 million. That is 300,000 jobs lower than expected. Or sorry, 200,000 jobs lower. 51% of you said below 7.4. You were correct. Oh my. Oh my. That is low. Now, what are the rate cut probabilities? That's I would assume it should be higher than 7%.
Let's get a refresh right here. Let's see. Um let's see if we can get higher than 7%. I would imagine that is that is pretty aggressive right here. Let's pull this up right now. Um okay, hold on. Let me just refresh. Still 7%. Still 7% on this. Still 7%. Where's the S&P? Where's the S&P? That one didn't change. Uh S&P went red for a second, but now it's flat. SoFi still 1380.
Palanteer basically flat. Nvidia is going green on that. The reason I think some stocks are going green is because this means a rate cut feels more likely, even if it hasn't changed in the Fed probability data yet. Consumer confidence came in at 86 versus 88. So we did get consumer confidence data today as well.
That is lower than expected, but that's not as dramatic as Jolts. I think people are also relieved because if Jolts came in higher than expected, people would legitimately think that Jolts is fake because it it just doesn't make sense anymore to say that we have tons and tons of jobs available given all the volatility that everyone is seeing.
So, at least this can affirm people's beliefs that there is a slowdown in the economy. The question is, can we control that slowdown? Um, and who's going to be responsible if the slowdown turns into a recession? Is it going to be the Fed or is it going to be Trump? And I think that's the thing that the market has to try to figure out.
S&P basically flat but still green. SoFi 1380, Pounder 115, Pounder actually holding up. Nvidia 109, AMD 96, Apple 210. Markets and look at the Q's. Q's are flat as well. I think the markets are thinking all right. Rate cuts. Rate cuts. Rate cuts. Rate cuts. Where is the 10ear? The 10ear is Wow. The tenure is nicely down.
4.185. Look at that. The tenure people are buying bonds because they're Yeah. TLT loves it. Look at the tenure. 10 year. We haven't seen 4.183 in like 3 weeks. We haven't seen below 4.2 in two weeks. So, the reason that's going down is because the market's expecting we're going to get some cuts because we kind of have to get some cuts.
The economic data slowing down as much as it is. Let's get some more coverage on this and then we will keep going from there. 88 Santelli. Hey Rick. Yes. And do watch yields moving down. 10 year yields below yesterday's lows. Now let's get to the data. Consumer confidence is the reason. These are April numbers. Expecting a headline number of 88.
We come in at 86.0. Weakest since April of 2020. And if you look at present situation 133.5 this is the best out of the three. This is only the weakest since se of 24. And if we look at expectations 54.4 you have to go all the way back to October of 2011 to find a lower number on confidence. You know many were wondering what was cross fertilizing what equities were looking really green.
interest rates moving down, fertilizing the equities. But maybe the interest rates moving down has more to do with slowness. But I do caution these confidence numbers can be a bit squishy and the uncertainty could have an overdramatic effect on it. Now let's look at job openings and labor turnover known as jolts. This is for March.
Expecting a number around 7.5 million. We come in light 7,192,000. smallest job opening level since se of 24 as we continue to watch yields move down and a slight reversal on the green and equities but still on the Dow at least some pretty deep green David back to you. Okay, Rick, thank you Rick Santelli.
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent was speaking at the White House this morning. Of course, as you might imagine, a lot of the focus was all right, we'll get back to some of that descent coverage, but the reason markets are green right now, guys, is because um it's time to cut. It's time to cut. This is exactly a good news or a bad news is good news situation.
Um because now markets are expecting that rate cuts are inevitable. Maybe not in May. Again, let me check the probabilities. But definitely in June otherwise the Fed otherwise this will be a Fed recession if they don't cut in June. Like people will blame Trump but they will definitely find a way to blame JPAL.
Uh if he doesn't cut right here uh the probabilities for May are now still 7%. All right. So so the market still doesn't think May is going to be good enough. May by the way is like a week away. So that makes sense. But June is at 57%. So, it looks like a June cut hopefully is coming on. And if we don't get a June cut, then things are not going to be the best. S&P, look at that.
Up a quarter of a percent. There you go. So far, back to 14. Wow. Palunteer. Are we going to 116? Are we going to 116? Resistance on 116 on Palunteer. 24,219 shares. 24,219 shares. Okay, guys. I obviously need some water. You guys can tell my voice. I'm going to play an update from CNBC real quick and I'm going to get some water. I'll be right back.
Was on tariffs. Megan Cassella, she's at the White House and has some of the highlights for us. Megan, hey, David. Absolutely. As you said, a briefing that focused mostly on tariffs. A rare briefing uh from the Treasury Secretary at the White House here this morning. One piece that is moving the markets this morning was a the White House responding to a report that Amazon is planning to change its prices online to show exactly how much of the price tag is due to tariffs.
Take a listen here to the White House's response. I will not speak to the president's uh relationships with uh Jeff Bezos, but I will tell you u that this is certainly a hostile and political action by Amazon. Now, Besson did not want to offer any specific timeline as far as what to expect on trade negotiations. He was asked about that several times.
He did highlight substantial progress. He said with three countries, that's South Korea, Japan, and India. Previewing some more to expect on that front. And while he didn't want to comment directly on this question we've been asking for days about whether President Trump and President Xi have been in touch specifically about tariffs, he did say this. Take a listen.
Over the next couple of weeks, as as I said, we have 18 important trading relationships. We'll put China to the side. 17 they are in motion. Almost saying the quiet part out loud there. 17 are in motion with one we can assume put to the side is not yet in motion and that's China. Finally, guys, I did get a chance to ask the secretary if he could detail for us just what to expect on the auto tariff relief front, which we are expecting to hear more about later today.
He would not give us those specific details, but said it is coming. This comes as a result, he said, of the president's meeting with both domestic and foreign auto producers, and that we'll see the details of that executive order later this afternoon, guys. Megan, good to good to hear that the trade deals and talks are in motion.
Is the best case scenario. Okay, we'll go back to that in a bit. Uh, but yeah, dude, we're pumping. It's not a crazy pump, but we I mean, this is bad news is good. Look at Nvidia almost 110. almost 110 right here. I mean, I think the market is is calling the bluff now on Pal not cutting because of tariff volatility.
Like, even if the tariff volatility is so aggressive that it could increase inflation, guess what's going to decrease inflation? People not buying anything because a people might not be able to afford stuff, but b if they don't have a job, then they're definitely not going to be able to afford stuff. It won't just be because of higher prices.
It will be because of a lack of disposable income. Uh so as an investor, one of the reasons being in the investor class is so important is because even if Main Street is not doing that well, Wall Street can do well. Now granted, eventually Main Street will catch up to Wall Street, but there there is an argument that if if we cut rates, a lot of these growth stocks that love a low rate environment, they're going to really get momentum.
Um bond yields coming down will also be helping uh equities. And what's going to be very very important right here is if we can actually nail a pseudo soft landing, right? We don't talk about the soft landing anymore because we've kind of had no landing. But if there's a world in which all right, the economy is slowing down but JPAL softens the blow which means the blow is not as aggressive, then from that perspective, we might not have the the worst situation in regards to like this massive economic collapse, which a lot of the bears are predicting will happen.
And they're predicting that because they think the tariffs are so aggressive and or they think that the Fed's not going to be able to time it correctly. The Fed messed up in 2021. I think JPAL doesn't want his legacy to be messing up twice. So, I think the market knows we're going to get a cut.
Think the market knows we're going to get a cut. Um May probabilities are now 9%. We went from 7% to 9%. I don't think we're going to get a cut in May because it's seven days away, but it looks like June feels feels inevitable. Less openings does not mean people are losing jobs. That is fair, but then you have to remember initial jobs claims.
We are uh losing 220,000 jobs or that's not exactly accurate the way I'm framing it, but like 220,000 people are filing for unemployment every week with initial jobless claims. That's okay. If we get to 350 to 375, that's it turns into a recession. But the point is those people just lost 300,000 potential jobs if if if Jolts went from 7.
5 to 7.2. So although people aren't literally losing jobs based on the Jolt data, we'll see on the non-farm payrolls next Friday what that looks like. Uh the the opportunity to apply for those jobs is gone because they don't exist anymore, which eventually can have an impact on the, you know, the broader unemployment rate.
So right here just chilling at 14 bucks, holding up on those levels currently right now. Grab reports at 7:30. So, I'll be live at 7 p.m. I think the market close is just going to go till 9:00 today because we have technical Tuesday. We have grabb earnings. We have so much stuff. So, uh the call starts at 8. I think their numbers are out at 7:30.
So, I'll be live. I'll be live covering it. Non-farm payrolls is this Friday. Really? I think you're right. Oh, yeah. It's the first Friday of May. Yeah, I think. Okay. So, there you go. That's going to be Yeah, that data is going to be very important as well. this Friday. In terms of what we see, Snapchat is also after hours.
Snapchat, Visa, Starbucks, FICO, all of those are after hours. Snapchat right here 897. It was up 5% yesterday, up another 1.5%. Currently, right now, HIMS still holding on to 25%. Did anyone else sell their HIMS today? Did anyone trim a little bit, sell some covered calls, trade in and out of it, or are people just holding and letting it play out? Let me know if anyone if anyone sold him.
Analysts have Robin revenue at 97 million. Is this too high? So, we did an entire podcast on this yesterday. I think the revenue estimates are a bit too aggressive and me, Tanner, and Roy could not get to 917 million. So, either the analysts are thinking that there's parts of the business that are going to be really accelerated that we aren't understanding or the analysts are just being way too aggressive and not conservative enough. I have no idea.
Some estimates are saying 899 million, but from the ones I've been looking at on other sources, they're saying 920. So, realistically, Robin's got Robin has got to put up like 925, I think, to beat all the estimates. And I don't know what in my numbers, I get closer to like best case scenario 9005.
Realistically, I'm at like 8.90. So, we're going to find out. At the end of the day, Robin is also a long position for me, but um the stock has run going into earnings and so we're going to have to see how they perform and if that can match the expectations. Nvidia right here 108.99 Shopify 9864 that is also green on the day.
Isn't GDP data today? I think you're right. I think we get GDP data. Let me confirm um and see that this would be Q1 GDP estimates which Atlanta Fed says is going to be negative. Um I don't see it on my calendar but I think we are getting it either today or tomorrow. We are definitely getting that US data pretty soon. We get mortgage rates tomorrow.
We're definitely getting it this week, dude. I heard we were getting this. Oh, tomorrow. Oh, Atlanta. Yeah. Yeah, you're right. Atlanta GDP update is to is this afternoon. Then PCE and GDPR are tomorrow. All right, you're right. GDP and PCE are tomorrow. And then the Atlanta one is on this afternoon. Hood is wrong about grabb earnings. It's today. It's not on 514.
Whenever you guys look for earnings, don't trust any of the brokerage websites because the brokerages just try to pull in data from their APIs and it's usually wrong. I would just go to their the IR website. So, if you go to Grabs Investor relations, it'll it'll show you the actual date and it is going to be uh April 29th today here that if they reach a deal, we get to 10% still higher tariffs on everyone else because that that's where we are right now.
And there were higher rates announced, but the grace period until they make deals went away. So what is that? Is that what investors should expect if those deals are made? Still 10%. That's what exactly that's what we've been told so far. Kevin Hasset on our air said a few weeks ago he would be very surprised would be a very big deal if that 10% baseline tariff ever comes off.
So this is about those higher tariffs uh that are now on pause. The other thing to keep in mind and that investors need to keep in mind Sarah is that these are going to be agreements in principle or memoranda of understanding. Scott Besson has told us that explicitly that means probably nothing on paper for the first little while.
And when I've talked to lawmakers and to manufacturers, they're worried about the enforcability of this and they're worried about the certainty. They're not ready to make long-term investment decisions just based on an agreement in principle. So while it will be a step forward once we get some of these announced, there's still a long way to go after that.
Yeah, it's a very important point. We'll see if we do get those agreements in principle. The market may react. But to your point, Megan, it's not clear that decision makers will necessarily follow as well. Megan Cassella at the White House. Bent said nothing today. We talked about it, but Bent said nothing that was realistically going to move the markets.
What what moved the markets today was jolts and consumer confidence. And even though both were bad, you're getting green across the board. Now, it's not crazy green, but you are getting some green. SoFi, it looks like 1450 is hard resistance to get over. Uh 15 is I think 168,000 shares.
69 million shares have already been traded up SoFi. Average volume is 51 million. So, I would not be surprised if we get to 100 million shares traded by the end of the day. But, um SoFi right here at 1395. Spotify did indeed miss. They missed EPS by 6%. How bad is the market punishing Spotty? Spotify down 9%. I mean, look, it's reasonable.
If you're going to miss by 50% on EPS, it's down 9%, but it's not a thesis breaker if you're long Spotify. It's it's I think there's some ancillary reasons why they missed EPS, not like any fundamental structural reason. But yeah, if you miss EPS by that much, it's going to go down.
Amazon just said there was never any plan under consideration to show the cost of Trump tariffs on each product on the main website. Oh boy, Amazon coming out and kissing the ring, baby. Hold on. That is interesting. So, the White House was asked about Amazon showing tariff prices today. The White House responded by saying Amazon's being political.
Um, Amazon comes out and says, "Nope, that wasn't us." Let me let me see if I can confirm this. That is I mean, Amazon, right? Maybe there was a plan and Amazon just rolled it back. Or maybe Amazon never had that plan. Yeah, that's the headline. Amazon just said there was never any plan under consideration. Amazon says its discounted hall business has considered listing import price duties on certain products.
Okay, so it sounds like Amazon was going to show certain products having import price duties on discounted quote unquote hall business products. But that doesn't mean every single product on the website was going to show a tariff price associated with it. So it feels like uh the media kind of thought Amazon was going to make this an entire website thing and Amazon and and maybe they were.
I think we need some more details on this, but Amazon right here saying, "Nope, that was never the plan." Is Amazon reversing right here? Amazon. Yeah, look. I mean, it was already reversing from some of the from some of the uh Jolts data, but it was down almost 2.5. Now it's down 083%. Hall is their Teimu competitor. Okay, got it. Thank you for that.
Thank you. Yeah, that that is correct. Hall is their Teimu. That makes a lot more sense actually. Their Teimu competitor, which is literally getting like explicitly everything from China because it's their Teeu competitor, uh would obviously have to show the import prices because Teimu is showing the import prices.
So why wouldn't you, right? If Timu is doing it, Amazon should be doing it as well. But in terms of the main website products, I I I don't know. I kind of believe Amazon here. Seems like this was a misunderstanding. Seems like it they they didn't plan to actually show it on every single product on the website. All right, cool. Not bad.
I mean, Amazon has earnings this week. I think they're going to have a good quarter. Obviously, terror volatility is going to be tough for them to navigate, but AWS still should be phenomenal. And if operating margins get anywhere near 12 13%, right now it's at about 11.1. It was at 7% four quarters ago.
I think the street's going to be happy regardless. Amazon right here 186.4. Pound here 11419. Nvidia still green 108. Snapchat 894. S&P 551 that's still green. Apple 211. The Q's are up a little bit. HIM still up 25%. Tessy down 1.03. Oh, how did we not talk about the Tesla news? Bro, we were so distracted by Bent. forgot to bring up the Tessy news.
Uh, we had an insider buy on Tesla for the first time since 2020 since 20 freaking 20. Since November 2020, that's got to be bullish, right? That like that that's got to be somewhat bullish. Now, I'll give you the reason why that you could you could say this is not bearish or that this is a nothing burger, but I feel like regardless it's bullish.
So, who is the guy who bought? Joseph Gbia, who is the co-founder of Airbnb, he is on the board of Tesla and his uh net worth is $8 billion. He bought 4,000 shares at $256 last week. So, he spent about a million bucks on buying Tesla. This is the first insider buy since November 2020. Having said that, that's like if you're worth half a million dollars, 500,000, that would be equivalent to you buying $62.5 of one share of Tesla stock.
So when you put it into that perspective, uh the buy did not signal a massive level of confidence because it was very inconsequential towards his overall net worth. However, I still think it's kind of bullish uh in in in in the respect of a company that has not seen insider buying for 5 years at prices that were a lot lower than 256.
Not a single person bought at 103, 115, 130, 120, 175 last year in April. this guy's buying at 256. I don't know, dude. I mean, I think there's a hell of an argument for that it's it's just a nothing burger, but there's also an argument for maybe um it's not the worst thing in the world. So, yes, even billionaires value a million dollars.
It's just uh in comparison to its net worth, it's it's it's very small. But still, 4,000 I I mean I it could have been a thousand shares. The idea that he's doing it at 256 after those earnings, which which were really crappy earnings, kind of means there is an insider who thinks that the numbers don't matter. It's about the numbers in the future, which means you have to take a risk and invest based on the future.
Like a lot of people feel about Tesla, which is why Tesla is is trading at the multiple trading at. And it might signal more confidence around Optimus and robo taxi. So that's what I got out of it more so than the actual amount they spend on um on the shares themselves. balance chair 113.60 SoFi 1 or 1380 and then Snapchat 891 S&P basically flat on the day.
Do we have a Tesla headline? Tesla to deliver first semi-truckss within 6 months targeting 50k annual production by 2026 despite tariff headwinds. Huh. Tesla semi. Let me confirm that headline. That's kind of bullish, too, right? The Tesla Semi we haven't heard about in a while. Yeah, that I think that's correct. They want to deliver them by the end of the year and they're targeting 50K annual production by 2026.
They didn't talk a lot about the semis on the uh call. I think they were asked one question about it and they kind of just like waved it off. Um so the semi, the Roadster, a lot of these cars that just have not gone public yet. If we get any updates on those, I think that could be a nice catalyst for Tesla. I'm really curious what's going to be the new affordable vehicle because Elon did say, "Hey, it's not really going to be a new vehicle.
It's just going to be like a more affordable version of our current vehicles." So, I wonder what is an affordable Model Y look like? Like, if it's going to cost 30K flat, what are they going to take out of the Model Y? A, for them to make a profit on it, but b for them to still deliver a a great experience that would rival a Corolla or a Civic, etc.
So I think that's what we're going to be looking for as well on on Tesla. 23% on HIMS that 135 that's still up right now. Tesla down about 1.4. PayPal flat on the day. UPS down about point4. Royal Caribbean down about 3%. Wow, that one reversed. That was pretty damn green. I guess consumer confidence market might be thinking is bad for cruise lines.
Robin Hood basically flat right here. And then Microsoft 393 on the day as as well. UNH's dropped below 415. Holy crap, dude. United Healthcare. Wow. Down one. That's that that's got to be hurting the Dow Jones today. That's one of the biggest holdings in the Dow Jones. Yeah, Dows is flat because of that.
I don't think United deserve to get hit as bad as they got hit on their earnings guidance last week. And I think they're kind of sandbagging. But I also think that, you know, if you if you meaningfully decrease guidance, even if it's temporary, that's that's going to hurt your stock. Grab right here down about 74% currently right now.
Someone's saying, "A commit, are you excited for Grab earnings? Do you think it'll do well?" Here's what I'll say about Grab because I know the actual question behind that is, "Hey, should I be buying Grab right now?" I think this stock is undervalued and I think the stock is closer to 10 in 2027. Having said that, I I I I I don't know the company as well as I know Hood or Pounder.
And even on those companies, I'm still, you know, usually wrong in terms of what happens to the stock price on earnings. If you're buying at 472, you're buying a company that's trading at 30% cash, just became profitable, free cash flow is exploding, adjusted. Ebida is exploding, and the qualitative thesis is I think they're becoming a monopoly in Southeast Asia.
That 470 could turn into 420 today if there's some number the street doesn't like. So, I think if you're buying it for a swing trade or something, like the reason I'm buying Snapchat on a swing trade is because I genuinely believe we're going to see 10 11 bucks. I could be wrong, but I believe in that. On Grab, do I genuinely believe we're going to see five, six bucks after hours? No.
I think it's possible because I think the earnings will be good, but I I've seen Grab tank on earnings if the numbers are a little bit off. And so the margin of safety isn't really there. On Snap, I I just don't think we're going below eight bucks based on the indicators I looked at.
And I think it's realistic to say it can go to 10, 11 bucks. So, I'm comfortable taking the bet there. If you want to swing trade grab, I think you just got to be ready to potentially DCA because the earnings might not be uh as incredible as needed, which in my opinion simply means we need to guide to 500 million in adjusted EVA. That's what my valuation model uses to get to $10 by 2027.
If they don't do that and they continue to sandbag, then we're gonna have some issues. So, yeah, you should only be buying it if you are kind of long-term confidence on this because I don't know if the swings are going to work. Having said that, there's a lot of call activity on that $5 call by the end of May.
But having also said that, well, there was also a lot of $6 call activity before the last earnings. And last earnings, it was down 15%. So, I mean, realistically, you got to just have conviction here if you're going to buy Grab before earnings, but for long-term investors, I think 470 is not the the the worst price to to get it.
Uh, what about First Solar? So, I don't know much about their business, but Nphase like got hammered on earnings. NPA is 4642 basically at all-time lows right now. Um, first solar in the solar space. I know that's a still a bit of a yeah 52 week low on Nphase right here 4483. I know first solar is a bit more commercial than residential but still um if solar demand is not doing that well for solar down about 1% right here then that could also hurt the earnings.
So not sure exactly what to think of solar but the overall solar ecosystem is not that exciting from a narrative perspective anymore. What's the long thesis on Grab? It's pretty simple. I think they will be one of the biggest super apps in Southeast Asia, financial services, ride hailing, deliveries, and a variety of other verticals that they're ingratiating themselves in.
Um, look, I I would encourage people to just read some articles on Grab and like just like go a little bit more deeper on what these guys are doing. Watch some interviews with the CEO, the CFO. I mean, these guys have a 20-year vision to become a massive, massive company. They just ended up IPOing at a really crappy time in 2021.
This company was worth like 60 billion. They were doing like a billion in revenue and losing $2 billion every year. It was just like it was a ridiculous bubble. They've been punished for four years. But all the metrics I track are going up and to the right. And so usually when that happens and you have this massive consolidation, you tend to have share price follow those metrics along with the fact that I like the founder CEO and I like the the rate of innovation.
They just held their first in dude. Southeast Asian companies don't hold investor days like Robin Hood Gold or Pounder AIP. Grab did that and I talked to a lot of people from Malaysia and Singapore. They're like, "Dude, we are not used to companies holding an event and broadcasting it to people about their new products.
Like, you don't do that in Southeast Asia." But Grab is doing that because I think they have a lot of stuff to show off. So, from that perspective, that's the long thesis. Question is just if the numbers are going to be good enough to affirm that thesis tonight. S&P 500 right here at 549. That's down about half a percent.
Currently, right now, oh no, we got the crypto bots in the chat. Sorry guys. Let me see if I can ban some of these. If there's any mods right here, please ban them. I love how you broke down the XA184Z project in your video. Can't wait to see it skyrocket. I just I just YouTube's got to do something about this, dude. YouTube's got to do something.
Like, at some point, YouTube cannot keep saying we have the best AI in the world and not do anything about this. I mean, this is getting ridiculous. Hopefully, they do something soon. Speaking of, of course, tariffs, GM shares are under pressure this morning. Uh you just heard Megan discussing of course the possibility of a roll back at least on some tariffs involving auto parts. Philippo's here.
He's got more on GM's quarter and what we may hear perhaps from the Trump administration. I guess GM's trying to figure it out as well right now. Phil, everybody's trying to figure it out. David, let's start first off with what we got from General Motors this morning, which was the Q1 results. Uh which is really not moving the stock a whole lot.
They did beat on the top and the bottom line. They also had a North America EBIT of 3.28 28 billion down from the first quarter of last year with an adjusted margin of 7.9%. What is everybody talking about when it comes to GM or really any of the automakers right now? Well, it's the fact that they don't have much certainty and because of that, General Motors said today, you know what, we're going to move our analyst call to Thursday and they are expected to give updated guidance for 2025 at that time.
Now, keep in mind, they did have guidance back in January. They say today, "No, you can't even count on that because of the tariffs. Everything has changed." And with regard to the tariffs, we heard from Secretary Bessant, as you guys were just talking about just a few minutes ago. He said auto relief would go towards reshoring manufacturing.
He wants full expensing of equipment or he promised this full expensing of equipment, factories will be retroactive to January 20th. there is the incentive especially for suppliers and he says they want to give automakers a pass to create jobs. The challenge guys is this. The automakers are looking at parts tariffs that kick in on May 3rd.
Even with some of the adjustments that may be announced this afternoon or expected to be announced this afternoon, they're still going to face higher costs. And if you are a supplier right now, you're looking for some certainty. You don't have it with US MCA. Yes, the administration would like suppliers to move their plants back to the US as well as automakers to move production to the US, but without US MCA certainty, what I hear back from people in the industry is, I'm not making that move.
It's too costly. I need something more than simply a promise that things will improve. And that's basically why I think the Wall Street Journal article came out yesterday about Trump um getting ready to reduce auto tariffs. And he's speaking in Michigan tonight. Michigan's a big auto manufacturing state, so there is a world where I think we get some auto reliefs tonight by Trump potentially making that tariff announcement of reductions, but we're going to have to see if he does it later today. Let's get uh to one of my
favorite analysts. We haven't heard from her in so long, JP Morgan's Gabriella Santos. Let's see what she has to say about the markets and if she continues to be bullish. Head of the key tech earnings and economic data that we're going to hear from this week. joining us. Gabriela Santos is the chief market strategist for the Americas at JP Morgan Asset Management.
We got a lot of earn we got a lot of numbers including jobs of course on Friday. What are you expecting to see this week both on the earnings front and maybe some of the government numbers we're going to hear? So we do get those job uh report numbers for April uh on Friday. We think nothing too dramatic happening.
Little bit of a a slowdown to about 130,000. There are a lot of unknowns around immigration uh as well as federal layoffs, but overall it's still too early, we think, to tell the effect of some of these bigger policy changes we got in April. It seems more likely to us. We'll have to wait until May, until June to see that data to be able to really calibrate uh our expectations. Similar for earnings.
Uh so far it's been quite a good earning season, but companies are feeling a little bit frozen as to the real clear guidance that they're giving us. And as a result, we haven't seen research analysts take down their earnings expectations very much for the year, basically in line with average. So it's also going to take us a little bit longer to understand. Sorry.
You think that's a mistake that the analysts have not taken down the numbers? Well, we think every This woman does not blink and I love it. I love She does not blink. I don't think she knows how to blink, and I love it. You guys are saying she has crazy eyes. I It It I don't Maybe I'm attracted to it, but I I like it when she doesn't blink.
It's It's pretty damn cool to me. Everyone knows they're not the right numbers. 10% is what we came into the year. It's still generally Isn't that a problem? If everybody knows that they don't have the right numbers, isn't that Isn't somebody not doing what they're supposed to be doing? No.
I think you get these during these big moments of uncertainty during COVID or even during the first trade war. It took us some time to actually understand how much revenues would be hit, margins and then the bottom line. So what happens in the interim the multiple does the heavy lifting. So you get that multiple contraction and then the market's already doing the work.
Exactly. And you know, it depends exactly how much, but I think that's part of the reason why it seems unlikely the that we unwind more than this half that we've already unwind of the biggest sell-off exactly because we've yet to actually see the impact on earnings and on the economy. We all know the direction is softer.
It's just a bit tough to actually calibrate that. And so the next 100 days are going to be really really important to understand the base case for tariffs, the offsets from fiscal, the response from from the monetary side and what's going on. What is your sense? Look, there's a whole bunch of hedge fund guys and analysts that have paid enormous amounts of money to satellite providers to look at shipping uh coming from China, ships that apparently have nothing on them, ships that never went, all of this.
And there's this view, I don't know if it's become the consensus view, that somehow we're going to get to the end of May and all of a sudden you're going to walk into all of these stores and they're just not going to have the merchandise you want. Okay, before she speaks, I want to give my thoughts on this and she see if uh she agrees with me.
So, there is real shipping data in ports in uh Los Angeles showing that uh Chinese ships have come down 44% year-over-year and that's happening in the month of April and as a result, we're going to have less inventories. There's two nuances to this. Number one, yes, that's effect of tariffs because we're going to have, you know, people aren't importing that much if you're going to have to pay 145% on Chinese goods.
So, yes, we're going to have less inventory. However, in Q4, companies pre-ordered a lot of things in order to prepare for this exact moment, which are the tariffs. So, I don't think we're going to have less inventories in a month, but in a couple months, if this trade war doesn't die down, then yes, we will have less inventory.
So, I think we're going to be okay in the month of May because of all the pre-orders in Q4, which actually was the reason why inflation spiked up, but if we don't end this trade war soon, then eventually we will have an issue and all of a sudden, not only are then of the merchandise, the replacement merchandise is going to cost more.
Is that your expectation? I think it's time is running out to see a lessening of the tariffs on China. And I think it's a little bit like it was in CO in the sense that we're all looking and and earning for some highfrequency data to get that understanding ahead of the numbers knowing that there's a lag. Um, and I think it caught a lot of attention and it should over the weekend that we saw a 40% peakto trough drop uh in shipping from China to the US because the tariffs are simply prohibitive.
Secretary Scott Besson, Treasury Secretary, mentioned last week, everyone knows these 157% headline tariffs are unsustainable, but we really need to see them actually come down pretty quickly before it's we're not talking about higher prices and companies figuring out ways to pass that on. We're talking about actual disruption to the supply chain.
And especially remember China uh has a pretty big control over a pretty important part of a lot of what we import from it. It's not easy to substitute overnight. What is the the wisdom inside of the House of the House of Morgan, if you will, when it comes to the way Trump will ultimately deal with tariffs? Meaning, some people believe that there really is a put and that he's just going to effectively not do all these tariffs because he's going to realize that the market and bond market and everybody else doesn't like it.
And then if you read the Atlantic magazine yesterday, he says, "I've had these views for 30 to 40 years and I'm going to do it and this is what I'm doing. And if you don't understand that, you don't know what's going on. Yeah. And I think it's all about the magnitude of the tariffs.
So it seems like we've gotten about three moderations in the overall headline level of tariffs overnight news of uh uh an upcoming one on auto part imports. Um so that's taken down the headline tariff rate from the worst case, the highest since the 1900s to the current the highest since the 1940s. So I think there have been some moderation.
We've taken some of the worst case off the table. That's good news. The market has recovered half of what it had sold off. However, our base case for the actual tariff rate we get was our worst case coming into the year. Meaning still a pretty high tariff rate that remains those 10% universal tariffs as well as a havinging of the China tariffs which are unsustainable, but that still leaves us at about 60%.
So that's why I think there's low conviction on the actual forecast for the economy and earnings. That doesn't mean there's nothing to do. So what we've been seeing our clients do is focus a lot more on rebuilding a core allocation. So what's in the core? What's in the core allocation? And is the mag 7 have anything to do with it? And this is really interesting because I think this we're all coming into this big change in policy coming after a pretty exceptionally exceptional two years, right? for equity performance, specifically growth in the US,
specifically the mag 7. So that was always going to normalize somewhat. We just got a catalyst from policy and from deepseek Monday. So what it means is a lot of our clients are thinking about more neutral allocation equities, bonds. They're thinking about 5050 value growth. They're really thinking about that international piece again.
And within the bond sign, it's rebuilding core fixed income because things So, I mean, basically what she's saying right here, and again guys, sorry for all the bots in the chat. Uh, I know mods, you're working overtime right here, but YouTube's got to do something about this.
Basically, what she's saying right here is, hey, we have maybe a month or two months until the market completely says this is an absolute train wreck. They already said it was a train wreck on April 3rd up until April 8th. And then Trump uh blinked even if Santos doesn't blink and we took back the 145% tariffs. We had a 90-day pause yada yada.
We got we got some progress on deals even if we haven't announced deals. And so the market's happy again in terms of 550 on the S&P versus 4,800 on the S&P. But we've got a couple months of the market I think maybe and maybe even a couple weeks, right? like we don't know in this market of actually giving the ability to have a solid foundation until they decide to to say you know what enough is enough and we're just not going to be buying equities in an uncertain environment where we have no clarity on trade deals which is fair.
So she's bullish. She's just kind of saying you're not going to see higher stock prices until we actually get some real trade deals done and some actual policies uh meaningfully implemented when it comes to the tariffs. Also, I don't know why you guys are saying her eyes are weird, dude. That's cool.
Not being able to blink for six minutes straight is bullish, bro. Not being able to blink for freaking 6 and a half minutes to me is bullish. Steve says he wants to come on the show to talk about SoFi. I'm going to try to call him up in a second. Let's get into that Amazon coverage and then Oh, never mind. Steve is on the phone.
Let's bring him on. Steve, good morning. How are you? And it sells all And what sells off? Little company that thinks it's a technology company. Okay, hold on. It's not selling off that aggressively. Where is SoFi? SoFi talking about Where is it at? Yeah, it's up 4%. It was up. It was up 9%. It's up 4%.
I don't think that's crazy. Yeah, it's selling off. Well, yes, it is selling off. Just like Ken said it would. I texted Ken this morning. I said blowout quarter. He's like, it's gonna sell off. Um, I don't think you heard the call, but I did not hear the call. I was going to listen to it. I figure I'd call you for a few minutes before I get myself together and get out of here.
I got to go to a meeting now, so I'm going to listen to it in the car. Oh, wait. You mean you actually have work? You actually have a job. Yeah, I've been working all morning. That's why I didn't do anything this morning. I got up and started working. I I just want you to say that for people to know that like, you know, you can't just literally stream with me all day because I think that's what they expect.
No, when you wake up to emails about licenses that whatever there there's always issues. They get fixed, but there's it's always something. All right. So, raw reaction, triple beat, raise guidance. What do you think of this quarter? People are going to think that I I had thank God I did not get as close on some of the numbers, but on the SoFi Weekly I said that they were going to come in with 211 million on adjusted EVA and they came in with 210.
It's pretty damn good. Pretty damn good. I was off on revenue and net income. I said 784 on revenue. I think they came in where did they come in on revenue? 771. I was off on that and I said 61 million net income and they blew net income out of the water. It was a good quarter. I don't think anyone can objectively say it was a bad quarter. It was a great quarter.
It was a great quarter. Triple D raise guidance again just like we said they would. I mean everything is bullish about this. It's just the only question I have is did they discuss the tech platform and RPs in the Q&A? I didn't hear the Q&A because I went to Bent, but okay. I mean, if they did address it, there's not much to address.
It's a 10% growth with a lower product with 131 million in revenue, which is like basically zero growth um quarter over quarter. So, all right. So, here we go. They said and we recently signed a deal with Merkantil BCO which offers personal and business banking services in Panama and we'll use our cyber bank digital banking platform.
We are pleased with the demand from new client opportunities for the tech platform business and expect these wins and others in the RFP process to have an impact on our revenue in 2026 and beyond. So they're basically saying that they think they're going to win a few RFPs this year for the tech platform which will be accredited in 2026.
That's all they gave us on the earnings call when I type in RFI. Yeah. I mean the the the tech hybrid multiple is not going to come from that Galileo platform. No, this is a banking company right now. This is a financial banking company and there's nothing wrong with that. There's nothing wrong with that. But if they want to be considered a tech company, I think a third of their revenue have and a third of their profits have to come from the tech side at a very minimum.
Otherwise, I don't know how this is a tech company. Look, it's fair. I mean, I think it's also selling off a little bit with the macro, but this is this is what happens every time. Like, you get a pump, but the market then realizes where is the the tech multiple coming from? It's not coming from lending and it's not coming from financial services.
How How about Amazon? How about Amazon? How about Amazon? Like I'm I'm not happy as a shareholder with that. So, uh I don't know if you got the latest update, but Amazon's denying that they were ever going to delist the tariff prices on their products. They denied that. They denied that just now. Okay.
So, how did this even get started? because they have a competitor to Teeu called Hall and they were going to list the tariff prices on those products which is what Teimu is doing. So that makes sense, right? But not on the main page website and so yeah. And what did the sense say? The sense said Amazon is political and they're partnering with Chinese propaganda firms to make these arguments.
So uh yeah, that's why Amazon took a hit, but it's recovering now. In terms of uh what Bass said, well, he didn't say anything, dude. He really didn't say anything. I mean, he said that he said retail's buying the dip because they trust Trump even if hedge funds don't, which was interesting. And he said if the Chinese don't make a deal, they're going to lose 10 million jobs.
And then he reiterated we want to replace income taxes with long-term tariff revenue. And that's it. Tell us what you got. I wish they didn't say that. I just think they're realistically not going to do that. So every time they do it, it's it's like nonsense. Yeah. I just I don't think it's realistic. I think that they would have a much better I think they would have more credibility if they just said, "Look, our long-term goal for the second half of this administration is to cut wasteful spending with Doge, increase revenue from tariffs, and we'll get to a point
where we'll be able to offer each individual taxpayer a much larger standard deduction. than what they currently get now. Correct. And leave it at that. Yeah, I agree. I agree. By the way, Wells Fargo just announced a $40 billion stock buyback. They should buy SoFi instead. Do you would you want a company to take SoFi out at these levels? Yes.
Take me out of my misery. What What do you think? Like another bank should just acquire them? Yeah. Take them out of my misery. We're going to use that money for something else at this point. What? What? Okay. So, SoFi is worth uh SoFi's worth 13 billion, how much would you think they should be? Or 15 billion, how much do you think they should be sold for? Look, if somebody bought them out for 20 a share or so, I don't think that anybody would be that mad in the short term. I got to go though.
I'll call you later. All right. Thanks, Steve. Appreciate it. All right. Well, that's what we got from Steve's perspective on SoFi. kind of the same thing he's been saying for a while, which is that the tech platform's lack of growth is what is stopping it from achieving the multiple that uh people are looking for.
Someone says, "I don't understand why Steve just doesn't sell if he hates so much." You know, I've asked him that question and he he still really does believe in Notto. He was one of the first people who got me to start listening to Nto's uh interviews from a couple years ago. There's this big Stanford keynote he gave that was amazing which is so ironic because it's not like NTO is an introverted guy but now he's not doing any podcasts even though he used to do them before but um but I I think he believes in Nto he believes that there is a world in which
Nto figures this out and he also believes and and by the way NTO is figuring it out the company's growing it was an incredible quarter it's just the one thing that they need to have a multiple expand which is technology I know that's a very vague term but that's not being interpreted by the market as meaningful technology on their on their share price and and Google's struggling through the same thing, right? Google needs an AI narrative and they're not getting an AI narrative even though Google keeps executing. So I think at
the end of the day good earnings prevail but uh the problem is you know Google's actually showing AI growth with Gemini and Gemini Robotics and Whimo etc. Sofa is not showing tech growth unless you believe the loan platform is a technology product which yes theoretically it is you or you can argue that it it becomes a technology product in terms of its margins and it its ability to not have the types of risks that normal lending products uh tend to put on the balance sheet but that core juicy SAS revenue that creates a
multiple SoFi is just not growing in that spot and I think that's why the street is is discounting it at these levels. Uh here's that Amazon coverage where Amazon is uh updating their stance on these on these tariffs on on consumer products on the auto tariff relief front. Now I can confirm according to a White House official exactly what the president will be signing this afternoon.
There are going to be two parts to this. Okay, so not only Amazon, there's uh breaking news on auto tariffs. Okay, so the Wall Street Journal article came out yesterday about auto tariffs. They are now confirming that Trump will be signing something on auto tariffs before he goes to Michigan tonight. and then I'll get the the Amazon coverage. Auto tariff relief.
The first is a dstacking they're calling of tariffs. This means that for auto companies that are already subject to the 25% tariff on all autos and auto parts that remains in place, but they are no longer having to pay anything that might overlap with that. Mostly the steel and aluminum tariffs as well as the Canada and Mexico tariffs.
None of those will apply to the auto companies. Any this is exactly what the Wall Street Journal said yesterday. So whatever sources they had were correct. This is pretty much exactly what he's doing before that Michigan rally today longer. The other part of this is a rebate. This is going to be applied upfront for the next two years to auto companies to sort of offset the impact of the tariffs.
They'll get 3.75% back in the first year, 2 and a.5% back in the second year. And that's going to be based on the retail value of the car and the percentage of it that's that's Americanmade. So trying to offset again that tariff impact. And it's a way of sort of rewarding these companies that commerce secretary Howard Lutnik is out with a statement saying that this is giving these companies some runway in exchange for cooperating so far with the administration and trying to move as much of their manufacturing back to the
US as possible. And again guys, it is a busy day for news. So I also want to touch on one other thing which is Amazon. We were speaking about this a few minutes ago as well and the White House responding to a report about Amazon. Uh the report initially said that Amazon was going to start adjusting its tar its prices online to show the exact amount which was due to tariffs.
An Amazon spokesperson now responding to CNBC saying quote the team that runs our ultra- lowcost Amazon hall store has considered listing import charges on certain products. This was never a consideration for the main Amazon site and nothing has been implemented on any Amazon properties.
So guys, we had seen uh some impact in the markets on Amazon stock this morning after the White House called this a hostile and political act. Amazon now saying this is not under consideration for the main site. Guys, yeah. Uh Megan, um I'm happy for that followup as well given we were focused on that uh at the top of the nine o'clock hour when when those comments were made uh by Carolyn Levit.
Where's the money going to come from for this rebate for uh for the automakers? Do we know? We don't know yet. It could be that some of the uh tariff revenue that they've been talking about how much that is that that is some of what's going to be applied for the rebate 3.75% doesn't sound like a huge amount but it is substantial for these companies.
It is only two years for this rebate but the money has to come from somewhere. I will say we are expecting a lot more details on this from the White House in the next hour or two as well as later today uh once the president signs the executive order. So more to come. A worthwhile question in the meantime.
Yeah, kind of a mixed reaction. And I would think this would be market friendly, right, for the automakers ultimately getting some relief there. Um, but GM's still lower after results today. You know, my take from this, very simple. I said this on the daily recap yesterday. Uh, Trump is folding on a lot of the tariffs he has imposed because they're not sustainable.
You can't have Ford and Stellantist and GM, these like core American companies that employ a lot of Trump voters laying off people. Like, you just can't do that. Every president that I've seen, at least over the past 10 years, makes it a priority to talk to Detroit and and and the auto sector in Michigan in a in a in a really meaningful way because that is one of the parts of America that employs hundreds of thousands, if not millions of people, and that's been like that for the past 50 years.
So for for Ford to say we got to lay off 10,000 people because the tariffs, like there's no way Trump's going to allow that. He's just not going to allow it h to happen. So whatever negotiating leverage he thinks he gets from imposing auto tariffs. I think he's willing to take some losses on like um cheap goods from China on Amazon, but I do not think he's willing to sit with the narrative that his tariffs cause someone in in in Detroit to lose their job, which is why they're going to get rolled back. And so
my belief now is that the overall tariffs, this 10% universal flat rate on every country, I still think is going to 5% or zero by the end of the year. I really think it's going to be hard to have 10% on Japan and get Japan to give us meaningful concessions, which um which is like which is probably why they put that 10% to try to get some some like negotiating leverage.
But at the end of the day, I think that's kind of how how they're going to have to use the tariffs to to bring it back down. There's just no way you can imagine that it stays the way it is because companies will lay people off and I don't think Trump's going to want that. Someone's asking right here, what is the purpose of level one options on SoFi and why are people so desperate for it? So, uh, level one options implies the ability to sell options, aka, um, covered calls and and cash cured puts, which we've talked about a lot on
the channel. I have a options uh 101 10 or 2011 series on this channel. If you type in emit options 101, you'll see the the we've done about six hours of content. We're going to do 301 with Jason soon. And so the point is a lot of sophisticated investors want to be able to make income off their investments either through covered call premium or through put premium.
And in order to do that, you have to be able to sell options. It's it's a relatively simple thing I think for SoFi to build, which is why people get annoyed that why do like the crappiest brokerages allow you to be able to do something and SoFi, which is supposed to be this one-stop shop for financial resources, not even have it built into its its ecosystem.
although it looks like it's coming soon based on some of the job descriptions that we've seen. Now, in defense of SoFi, they don't really make money off their brokerage app. So, they don't like desperately need it. The problem is, and this has always been my issue about SoFi and this whole narrative as a tech company, and you know, not says he wants to be the a top 15 tech company by market cap. These are his words.
If you're not doing something for your users and you're a consumer tech company, even if you don't make money off of that, if you're not going to innovate for your users, then like you're not a tech company. Robin Hood doesn't make money off a lot of of the different random features that they put out there, but they do it to deepen user engagement and keep their customers happy.
Like I don't think Robin's making a ton of money from tax lots, but people have been begging for tax lots for a long time because some people want to sell shares that they bought years ago versus that they bought recently or vice versa. And so Robin Hood, they took some time, but they eventually came out with the feature and now everyone has it.
So I I think if everyone wants option selling on SoFi and they don't allow it because of their priorities are, you know, somewhere else where where where the priorities probably should be because the business makes more revenue on that. But then the core branding of the company is one-stop shop. And then when I get to the shop, there's barely any milk or eggs or bread, which is kind of what I need as an investor, especially if I'm more sophisticated.
I'm selling options. then I'm just not going to shop at that shop. And and as a result, there's going to be other countries or other companies. I said countries because we're talking about tariffs, but other companies that are going to be able to to take away uh from from that user base. And that's what Robin Not has basically done.
So, wow. SoFi losing a lot of the pump. It's barely up 3% right here. 1360 from 1450. Macro is not really tanking. S&P is green. S&P's high of day. So, this is a SoFi thing right now. This is not a macro thing. S&P, look at that. I5294. Um, is that the highest we've had all week? That is Yeah, that's Dude, this is higher than Hold on.
No, let me I I think it's a little bit lower than Yeah, it's Dude, we got to 553.55 yesterday and then I don't think we got above that last week. Last week we got to 550. Yeah, this is this is literally the the the the um not only high of day, but it's a April high and definitely a two week high since we've started this kind of 5day green momentum on on the S&P.
So, if the macro is holding up right here as identified by the S&P, but so is now 1350, that is people selling so that has nothing to do with the macro. Hims right here up 18% again. Hims was up 40%. Hims also selling off. This one seems more reasonable. people taking profits right here which is normal.
Tesla down about 1.2% Nvidia slightly green. Q's are up.3 which is a new high of day for the Q's. Palanteer or we have 1131 114 we are at 11491 trying to make its way back to 115. So yeah that's a that's a sofa I think right now if it's if it's getting hit again great quarter just the narrative not exactly the best narrative.
I will continue to hold my options. I mean, I still think there's a shot we get to 20 by the end of the year, and I think the risk is asy asymmetric, but um we're just going to have to see if the narrative can change. All right, Atlanta Fed, I think that should be out soon. Last time they had -2.4% on GDP. Today, they said negative -2.7.
Negative -2.7. So, that's a little bit more than what they had last week. Um, unless anything meaningfully changes from the Atlanta Fed's methodology, we are going to have our first quarter of negative GDP growth in two and a half years and then if we get that second quarter, we are technically in a recession. So, I wonder how the Trump administration is going to navigate the the the messaging of this.
Whoever is going to be doing the messaging, I hope it's not Lutnik. that would be nice. But um no, this is economy that's not growing anymore. Now granted, a lot of this is due to imports and we imported a lot in Q4. We didn't import as much in Q1 uh because of the tariff preparation. So maybe the Trump administration is just going to say, hey, we did a lot of imports in Q4.
People aren't importing in Q1 due to tariffs, yada yada. Therefore, GDP growth is not really slowing down. It's just kind of it was frontr run already in Q4. I guess that's a somewhat reasonable argument you can make, but the headline is going to be negative growth. And you know, whether it's a Democrat or Republican, everyone has to deal with the headline.
And if the headline is negative growth, I don't think people are going to want that much of the nuance. The average person is not going to care about the imports in Q1 that were more aggressive. You know, like they're just going to want to know like, hey, why are we not growing? So, that's going to be important to see what the messaging of this ends up. It's Biden's fault. Yeah.
Oh my god. There's going to have to be a way they blame Biden for this. Oh my goodness, dude. It might end up doing that. They might end up I mean, like, what how what else are they going to say? Are we in for a recession this year? If we have two quarters of negative G GDP growth, that is a recession.
Now, it might not be some catastrophic recession just like in 2022, we had a negative quarter negative two consecutive quarter uh GDP growth recession, which Janet Yellen tried to say it's not a recession. No, it's a recession. Like, it is a like I hope doesn't try to change the definition of a recession. Like I hope they try to at least agree that the technical definition is that we will have a recession, but it just might not be as bad of a recession if we can pick up the growth and get rid of the tariffs by by Q3. This is Michelle Obama's
fault. Oh my gosh. Um, coreweave is up 10%. Why is coreweave up 10% today? S&P look pounder at 115. Uh S&P still holding on nicely. Wow. S&P high of up almost half a percent. 553. That means how much are we up from the absolute lows? 553 minus 480 divided by 480. We're up 15% from the lows of April 8th in a month.
In less than a month. I mean, if you sold at 4,800, it was just it's just it's just tough having to live with that. But if you got in anytime shortly after that, you've still been able to do very well. And if you bought the dip at 4,800, you've done pretty well. So, Palenter right here 115. Let me check resistance again for 116 on Palunteer.
We got to 1582, but we couldn't get above that. Um 116. I still think there's about 20,000 shares there. 34,000 shares. 34,000. All right, cool. Not too bad. 34,000. Meta is introducing a Meta AI app. Okay, finally. I think we've been waiting for this for a while given they have like 500 million monthly active users of Meta AI already.
So, this is going to be their version of Grock and GPT. Um, well, I will download it. I will be interested to use it. By the way, guys, GPT, it's gotten really fast and I've started to honestly use it more than Grock. I'm sorry. I love Grock. I pay for Grock. I don't pay for GPT yet, so I'm not paying the advanced version, but even the free version, it's fast, bro.
Like yesterday, I was using it and I couldn't believe it was like milliseconds of how fast it was. So, I have a thousand shares of Snap for earnings. I have a thousand shares of Snap for for the swing trade. Um, so GPT is continuing to get better and better. And I'm curious to see Meta AI.
I have no loyalty to any of these LLMs. If Meta AI is better than all of them, then I'll switch. Probably won't pay for it though because I already paid for Twitter. But that and that's why I use Grock because I pay for Twitter premium and so the Grock comes with it. So I use it. But GBT is getting really fast, dude. Really, really fast.
And I think Elon knows this, which is why they're getting ready to buy another 20 billion worth of GPUs because they got to keep building the architecture to scale to get to hypersonic speeds when it comes to AGI and so does OpenAI and so does anthropic and so do the hyperscalers which is why I think Nvidia is stupidly undervalued but and so does Meta you know like like all of this at the like yes the models are commoditized but the models still need GPUs to be able to run and as a result I think we should hopefully be able to make up for
the loss of China revenue in Nvidia um with with increased domestic demand. Average for Snap is 870. 870. I'm looking to get out at 11. I'm looking for 11. I'm not trying to be too optimistic, but I do think this thing could hit 1213 after hours and be a a nice trade. like I think they would have to really mess up to have a bad earnings, but it who knows it could also go to seven or six and I'm bag holding it.
Um, so that's why it's just a thousand shares, but I I think the downside is limited. And if they really do fall below seven, then this would have to be the worst earnings that Snapchat's had in a while because again, we haven't seen those prices since 2023. So the riskreward looks a bit more to the upside here. Shopify 9884, Nvidia 10881, Meta 550, and then Pounder still holding on right there nicely at 115 on uh on the day.
Meta integrated their AI chat and WhatsApp here in Ireland. Not sure if another country have this as well. I don't think the US has it yet. They're probably beta testing it into Ireland. But um yeah, the WhatsApp integration of AI, I think, is going to be gigantic for Meta. like WhatsApp. Dude, do you guys know during the uh during the during the World Cup, WhatsApp had 25,000 messages sent per second.
Like I don't think we all understand the scale of how and Meta is really not monetizing WhatsApp yet. It's primarily Instagram and Facebook. So I think that's a lever that they can turn on pretty easily. uh it is not um it is not uh uh uh in jeopardy like Google search which again I think those fears are overblown but like it's not really like what's going to replace WhatsApp you know there's other messaging apps out there but in terms of like LLM's taking away from blue links like that narrative doesn't exist for Instagram or WhatsApp now is Facebook an app that's
kind of dying to a lot of people in the United States sure but around the world four billion people every day get their news from Facebook even if we don't check Facebook anymore So, that one is still relevant. Instagram is is is is very relevant with Gen Z, millennials, and then WhatsApp is is is the go-to messaging app for people across the world.
So, right now, 1347 holding just above 2%. Um, so I think that can definitely be a a tailwind for them. Yes, there's Telegram, yes, there's Signal, and those are big companies, but you know, WhatsApp is different, bro. WhatsApp is freaking different. and every kind of like family group chat especially in India and Brazil all of them I don't know how Meta did it how they freaking hacked into these countries and like got every single person like it's not even an understatement I'm going to say almost every single person in Brazil and India
are using WhatsApp but they figured it out Zucks did a great job scaling it and as a result they've been able to uh maintain momentum so I think Meta AI could be very successful but it it comes down to how well is the the actual AI compared to GPT. Speaking of meta, uh Zucks did some interviews yesterday with Theo Vaughn, who is a uh I would say rather funny guy, a comedian, and the uh the let's just say some of these clips were really funny.
So, let me play a couple of these clips right here. Zucks again, he knows how to do a lot of media to get more exposure, but he did Theo yesterday. Oh, where was your first date that you took uh Priscilla to? Do you remember? Yeah, for for Priscilla that was uh we went to this place, Berdex. It was um Berdick. Berdict LA Berdict.
This uh like chocolate place, hot chocolate. Um that was that was pretty good. Um and was it just like you went and sat down or you Is it like a restaurant or just a place to get? Yeah, it's like a little coffee place. Little like hot chocolate type coffee place. It's um Yeah. No, it's nice.
They they they make good chocolate. They make these little mice things. Oh yeah. Yeah. Chocolate mice. So now every year on our anniversary, we get some mice. Oh yeah, good deal. Oh yeah. Nothing like a couple of tech emperors are enjoying a couple of mice. You feel me? I think that's very normal. That's very normal to me, dude. Um, sorry.
That just made me laugh, dude. I'm sorry, Mark. That just made me freaking laugh. It's just crazy to think it was it was just there were so many moments in this interview going back and forth. It was hilarious. I'm happy Zucks did it. The von is a big platform. So being able to get that distribution on that audience is is pretty strong.
But um yeah, there were many awkward moments in this interview, but it's kind of funny because it's like Zuck being awkward is now a meme, right? Because like people think of him as awkward. Even though he has reshaped his image from like being a full robot, but uh some of the awkwardness is just funny to a lot more people.
Hims right here still up 20%. SoFi up 2%. Meta up a third. Coreweave up 9%. Dude, I don't know why Cororeweave is up 9%. I'll try to find if there's any headlines there, but Cororeweave really getting some momentum. And then pounder 115.28 currently right now. [Music] Um, don't see the core headline. Let's see if there's anything else.
There is a Russia headline right here. It looks like Russia is demanding control of uh four Ukraine territories in their ceasefire deal. I don't think Zalinski is going to be happy about that. So, I don't know if we're any closer to a deal, but it does look like Russia Russia is trying to impose some more demands on control over territory.
Yeah, I don't see the core headline. I don't see anything here. Uh yeah, there's no re It's up. It's up 9% right here. Option flow is crazy on coreweave as well. It's starting to get higher. Maybe we're going to get some news on Core Wee soon. But that one is getting getting some love right here. Celsius.
Where is Celsius today? 3409. That why why is Celsius down 5%. What is going on, dude? We have some random moves in this market and we don't have a lot of explanations for them. Even Google down 2%. Like, why was Google down? Celsius announced that its portfolio brand Alani News surpassed 1 billion in retail sales for the tra trailing 52-e period ended April 13th, 2025.
Retail sales increased 72% year-over-year. Why is it down 5%. I feel like that's that's that's a good piece of news. That's weird. Microsoft signs power contract for 335 megawws. Uh, that could be the core of news. That could potentially be the core of news. Microsoft, who is Microsoft signing this contract with? Hold on. Microsoft 335 megawws.
Again, uh, a lot of people think Microsoft's taking down their capex spend. It's realistically just, uh, diverting the capex spend, not like meaningfully taking it down. So that narrative right there to be bearish Nvidia doesn't doesn't make a ton of sense. All right. So uh Clearway signs 335 megawatt power deal with Microsoft for rear for repowered West Virginia wind farm.
Clearway Energy Group signed a long-term power purge agreement with Microsoft for the output of a 335 megawatt wind farm in West Virginia. Interesting. Okay. So I don't think this has to do with GPUs. Does this has to do with Microsoft sustainability and decarbonization goals? I I don't well I mean I mean you know this could have an impact on the data center plays like coreweave and VST and VRT but this more so has to do with climate stuff than anything.
Verive right here down about 1% of the day again. Meta basically flat pounder 11470 SoFi 1350 holding on to that 2%. Snapchat still up 1.64 64 and then S&P up about 0.24% right now. Each windmill is about 1 to 2 megawatt. Well, one could also argue that uh the reason they're doing this wind farm is because they need more energy for AI data centers.
And so even if it's uh the press release is saying it's about sustainability and decarbonization, it might be also used in in other ways for it to navigate. I mean, how many Grab shares do you have? So, I don't really have a lot of shares. Like, I think I have like a couple thousand shares. I realistically have a massive options position in Grab.
I have a six-figure option position for call debit spreads, 7.5 versus 10 bucks. 7.5 $10 call debit spreads for January 2027. So, I'm betting that Grab can get to 10 by January 2027. And that's why, you know, people say like, why are you so excited for a double? Well, if if it gets to 10, the options go up 7x.
And I think after a four-year consolidation at four bucks, a breakout if the company performs is likely. So the average on that you can say is about 445 450. Uh if you would equivocate the options pricing, it's 34 cents is my options price. So that's about basically 450 on the stock and that's where the majority of my position is. So um yeah, shares I mean like it's a couple thousand shares, nothing crazy.
I think it's like 2200 shares, but the actual main position here is in the the options. But we got to see. I mean, it's it's a big bet. It's a big risk. You know, it's six figures over the next two years. And and realistically, if if if we pump to like seven by the end of the year, and I think we're slowing down momentum, I'll probably d-risk sell some of those.
But, uh, the plan is to hold it because I genuinely do think 10 bucks by 2027 is possible. And again, you guys know when I when I first introduced my price target, I I spent time with my friend who's an investment banker in LA. He knows numbers way better than I do. We spent seven hours literally going through all the numbers because he got into the trade with me and he put in basically the same amount I put in.
And we did the same thing with Hood, but he sold Hood too early, so he didn't end up making a ton of money. But like realistically, it's it's we we think it's cheap and we think there's a lot of upside. And in this market, it's not like 2023 where everything can double or triple in a year.
So, I know a double in two years is aggressive, but given the thesis, I think it's it's possible. So, now we just got to see how it's how it's happening. How's the TLT trading going? Okay, so TLT, my average is 205. The options are currently 191. So, we're down about 8% on the $100 calls for TLT for January 2026.
Um, we need rates to come down realistically on the 10ear to 3.5. I think for TT to get closer to 100 uh which I think you know given the slowdown we're seeing in the economy right now we're at 4.18 which again we haven't seen in a couple weeks which is really nice to see. I think we're going to get these rates to come down. So I don't think it's crazy to to be hedged with TLT if you think that yields will come down but it's up to JPA at this point to get rates to come down.
10 year treasury right there 4.18% currently right now. Yes, it well it's technically a covered call. So for grab it's a call debit spread. I talked about this yesterday. I bought a call and I sold a call on top of it which means if grab tanks the sold call goes up in value. The bought call goes down in value which is a hedge against if you had naked calls where the the bought call just you know tanks if the stock goes down.
Um, but if if grabb explodes like 20 bucks, I lose I leave a lot of money on the table because uh of the sold call, which is a $10 sold call, which means my profits are capped between the width of the spread. The bought call is 750. The sold call is 10. 10 - 7.5 is 2.5. So realistically, 250.
If you multiply that by 100, I bought it for 34 cents. So if you divide 2.5 by.34, you get a 7x return. But Grab has to go to 10 bucks and so they've got about eight quarters to pull this off and we got to see if they can do it. What's going on with your robot investment? Nothing. It's just in Carta, which is a website for startup investments, and it's just sitting there.
So, I I'm not going to be liquid on that for like a long time, like until Figure goes public, if they ever go public or until electronic goes public. I mean, that money is basically not touchable for a while. So, I hope it works. If it doesn't, it goes away. But if it does, hopefully it's worth a lot more in the future.
All right, what other stuff do we have? I think these are the main headlines for the day. I mean, outside of the Russia stuff and the Atlanta Fed stuff, I don't see anything too crazy. Amazon again said they never considered listing import charges for the main Amazon site. And then we had Jolt data, which was bad, but technically good. So, that's pretty much it.
Okay, Lutnick's talking at 2 PM. I'm not going to be streaming when Lutnik is live because I have to finish a bunch of things and I have to do some stuff. So, I can't go live for Lutnik, but we'll cover it at 3:45 when we do go live for the market close. Um, but keep an eye on your portfolio at 2 p.m. Eastern.
You can calculate that for wherever you are in the world. I mean, when Lutnik talks, bad things tend to happen like that. We've just seen it over the past three weeks. So, I don't know what's going to happen to the markets. It's relatively green right now. Keep an eye for 2 PM and if you got any swing trades, you might just have to watch out for for when he goes live again.
Bent I thought would say something important and Lutnik would double down on what Bent said, but that didn't happen. Bent said nothing, literally. So what is Lutnick going to talk about, you know? So I'm kind of I'm kind of like confused. Why are they putting him on TV? Like is he gonna talk about bringing over millions of uh jobs for people to make iPhones in American factories? Like because that's obviously not going to be the the best uh commentary that I think people will be looking for.
So I will be tweeting about it though. So I'll I'll tweet whatever updates I can get at uh at for Lutnik at 2 p.m. So if you follow me on Twitter, link in the description, you can get the updates. But we'll go over the video at at 3:45. All right, cool. I think that's it for today. Uh, SoFi earnings incredible. Markets just not really respecting it yet.
Uh, rest of these companies, eh, earnings like a Spotify, like a PayPal, and uh, consumer confidence and Jolt data, not good, but technically that is good because we need JPAL to give us some cuts. And it looks like we are getting closer to that. Word of the day. Let's do word of the day. Let me pull this up right here.
By the way, guys, I think I'm going to get my new laptop like very soon because like even me trying to like share the tab right now, it's being slow and like this is being stupid. I have like five tabs open. I think this computer at this point is just cooked. I think I've I don't know. It's been two years and I guess this this hardware is not enough.
So, I think I'm going to be upgrading my computer very soon. Okay, word of the day is usurp. Usurp. We've heard this word before. To seize and hold a position or power by force. The king feared that his closest adviser would usurp his throne. The vice president of the HOH tried to usurp the president's authority by calling a secret meeting.
I think Trump has been usurping himself over Lutnik going on TV for the past couple weeks and the S&P rallied 15%. Maybe he's done usurping himself and we're gonna have to deal with what Lutnik says today. But at 2 p.m. we'll find out what he ends up uh what he ends up saying. I use Chrome, but like people have said to use Firefox and and Safari.
I've used other they're not that good. I've used Brave. I've used a couple different browsers. I think it's that this computer literally has 16 gigabytes of RAM and I need 64 at this point. Like I bought this two years ago and it was good at the time, but now it's like I just I I need more RAM.
I just this is getting a bit ridiculous here. So, um, yeah, I think I'm I think I'm going to get that computer by the end of this week because if I'm streaming seven, eight hours a day to have tabs open, like I'm not doing anything intense on the I'm not gaming. I'm not like editing movies or anything like that.
I just just need to be able to switch between tabs without being afraid that it's going to it's going to spam out. So, all right, cool. That's it for me. Thank you everybody. Appreciate you all. We'll be back at 3:45 and 3:45 we're uniquely going to be looking at a couple earnings. Snapchat, uh, First Solar, Visa, and Starbucks.
Those are the main ones that I want to look at. Snapchat I have a swing trade on, but Visa and Starbucks are gonna be very very important for the overall health of the economy in terms of payment transaction volumes and obviously in terms of um Starbucks and consumer subscriptions, consumer coffee, consumer ability to pay for the types of products that that Starbucks is offering.
This is going to be the first call with the Starbucks new CEO as well, Brian Nichols. So, uh it'll be important and we'll have to see what they end up saying. So, Snapchat, First Solar, FICO, that's another one. Visa, and Starbucks. Those are the main companies that we look. Oh, is SMCI today? Hold on. That was not on my calendar.
I think you're right. I think SMCI is today. Let me confirm. That'll be a big one for the semis. Um, no, I don't think it's I don't think it's today. They haven't made a press release that of when they're going to announce their their their Yeah, it's not today. That's probably like a brokerage giving the wrong the wrong date. All right, cool.
So, SMCI probably later. SMCI 7 days. Okay, makes sense. And then finally, we have Grap. So, the market close. Make sure you have some food and some drinks because we're starting at 3:45. We'll finish earnings by 4:30. Jason will be on at 4:30. Jason will probably be on till 7. And then at 7:30, we get the grab results and then the grab call at 8.
And then from 8 to 9, we have the call. So, realistically, I think we're doing 3:45 to 9:00 p.m. tonight. So, um, yeah, make sure you're ready. It'll be a long market close. Got a lot to talk about, but we will get into all of that later today. I'll try to get Steve on as well. He probably has some more thoughts on SoFi, so I'll try to get him on, uh, later today on the on the close. All right, cool.
Thank everybody. Appreciate it. I'll see you guys for the market close at 3:45 Eastern and I'll see you then. Bye, everybody.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IdFBIje-YE4&t=64s
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English - CC1
English (auto-generated)
Welcome back to market on close. I'm Caroline Woods. Just about ten minutes left in the trading day. It's time for the big picture. Let's welcome in from Charles Schwab. Liz Ann Sonders is chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab. Team of one here. Lisanne, thanks so much for joining us. Nice to see you.
So listen, the market is higher on hopes of a trade deal. I know you want to get a better sense of the playing field in order to really know the market impact of the tariffs. Sounds like a deal with potentially Japan and India could be coming soon. Based on what we've been hearing from the white House.
Would that give you a good enough idea of the playing field, or is it really all about China? Well, I don't know yet. I think China is obviously the most important force here in terms of what we're already seeing. The impact on confidence measures, the drying up of shipments coming from China to U.S. Ports. But I think a start to deals and getting maybe a better understanding of what those deals might actually look like, what's their construct? I think that's been an important issue as well.
And, you know, even heading into Liberation Day, but certainly in the immediate aftermath of that, what business leaders have been saying and were saying is just tell us what the playing field is. I think most businesses, certainly the larger ones, can figure out how to navigate around tariffs if there's some certainty associated with them.
So I'm not sure we're yet past that point of uncertainty. Even if we start to get trade deals. Because even if we look at, say, an average weighted tariff rate of 15%, which seems to be what economists are gelling around, that is still significantly higher than what existed prior to Liberation Day. And you've said that there's better than even odds of a recession because of the impact there.
Do you think we'll start to see that weakness show up in the data this week? It's hard to judge whether we'll see it as soon as this week. We've got the jobs report coming out, what's called the reference week, which is the point up to which we have the data based on the Bureau of Labor Statistics and the combination of their establishment survey and the household survey.
The former generates payrolls. The latter generates the unemployment rate. It is through April 12th. So that captures a little bit. Call it ten days of some of the tariff related turmoil and uncertainty that we're seeing. But it may not fully yet reflect that. I'd say the near term data to keep a close eye on would be less so.
Things like the JOLTS data that we got today, because that lags by a month. So that's only March data. But claims we're getting soon challenger gray layoff announcement. Some of those leading leading indicators I think might be the tell, particularly if we don't get a sense of the true impact. As of this Friday's labor market report.
Yeah, I've been hearing that quite a bit lately. Weekly jobless claims aren't usually the focus on a on a monthly jobs report week, but it seems like there's increased focus, I guess, obviously, given the timing of there. But despite the fact that we have been seeing recession odds tick higher, and there still is all of this tariff uncertainty, and despite the fact that we've seen some really huge wild swings in the market this month, if you take a look, we still have one more trading day left in April, but the S&P 500 is down less than 1%
for April now. What's the read through there? Can we get anything you know bullish based on that a sign of resilience in this market or not quite yet. I think it's a little bit too soon to tell. If we end up on a on a strong note through tomorrow. It would be a pretty historically epic intra month reversal in the market.
And that based on history, because it would be unprecedented if we saw that to that significant degree. In other words, if we keep kind of rallying hard into the end of the month. So there's not a lot of historical precedence. That said, the weakness in the first four months of the year, if we look at it collectively, not just the month of April, suggests, based on history, a bit more choppiness to come.
But I'll tell you, I'm not. I'm not a trader. I don't advise traders, I don't I don't try to take a short term market timing perspective. But man, even those that do that and do that fairly well are having a really difficult time trying to gauge the short term moves in the market, because it's so much at the mercy of these policy announcements, which literally can happen in the moment and can turn things on a dime.
It's a tricky market backdrop, no question. Yeah, certainly the case tech, though, actually has been holding up pretty well in the month of April. Obviously not the case year to date. It's been one of the worst performing sectors. We of course have four of the Mag seven on tap this week with Amazon, meta, Apple and Microsoft.
Do you think that there's a chance that tech could regain its leadership position if earnings end up coming in better than expected? Well, keep in mind that The Magnificent Seven is inclusive of three different sectors. So you've got tech communication services and consumer discretionary. What I often refer to as the growth trio.
I think the relative strength we're seeing on a month to date basis, which is in contrast to your point, Caroline, about the year to date, which is much more defensive in terms of leadership. Actually, there's a force at play here that I think needs to continue to be considered, which is you've seen hedge funds, other institutions do a lot of de-risking over the last couple of months.
But what is clear is there still is that buy. Buy the dip mentality on the part of retail traders. And I think that is part of the reason why you're seeing groups like The Magnificent Seven and tech and tech adjacent kind of find their legs in this April period of time, which does smack a lot of this buy the dip that could persist.
But I think if we get into another period of elevated volatility, my guess would be we see a shift back into those classically defensive areas. So it's sort of a risk on risk off that will define what segments of the market do well in the short term. But Lisanne you've been talking about factor based investing really all year with this focus on quality, how does big tech play into quality? Because as I think about companies that potentially could have strong earnings and good cash flow and be able to withstand, you know, a recessionary environment, it
seems like big tech could fit the bill. It could, but I'd say be really careful about monolithic sector based investment decisions. I think there's a way, as always, there is to screen at the factor level up the quality spectrum, strength of balance sheet, strong free cash flow, reasonable valuations, high interest coverage, even adding into the mix. Low volatility.
A lot of people just assume that up in quality means sort of classically defensive areas or traditional value areas. There are those factors evident across the spectrum of sectors. And that's the point of factor based investing is you're not you don't have to make those monolithic sector calls in which you might get high quality and low quality.
So that continues to be our emphasis is that factor based investing. In fact, as you know, we neutralized all of our sector recommendations about three weeks ago. And for now, I think we're going to stay in that mode that won't that won't be long lasting. But we last time we did that was in the early part of the pandemic, when you had an equivalent amount of uncertainty about the near term outlook. Yes.
And I know that you won't change that until you get a better idea of this playing field that we keep wondering what it looks
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c9RmqggLMhY
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English - CC1
English (auto-generated)
Alex coffee, many thanks. Good to see you. Now it's time for this morning's trade. And we're watching visa. Visa reports its earnings after the bell. And we have a preview here with Caroline Woods. Good to see you. Good to see you too. Yes you're right. Visa reports after the bell today we'll get a read on credit card spending trends.
We know how consumers are feeling based on the consumer sentiment data we've been getting, but we know there's not always a direct correlation between how they're feeling and what they're doing. So these numbers will give us more insight into that. We'll also get Mastercard numbers later in the week.
On Thursday morning, we did already hear from American Express, which gives us a read on the more affluent consumer. They had said card member spending, credit performance and demand for all of their premium products continued to be strong across their customer base and consistent, or in many cases, better than what they saw in 2024.
So pretty positive on that front. That being said, their card members, as they say themselves, are not reflective of the full economy quite like Visa's are. So when visa last reported in January, they did highlight healthy spending during the holiday season, improving trends in payment volume and in cross-border volume.
Also improving trends in process transactions growth. So we'll see what they say now, especially with those cross-border transactions. Given reports of slowing U.S. Inbound travel, the weaker US dollar amidst all of these trade tensions. So I think that will be important in terms of the actual numbers. We're looking for adjusted EPs of $2.
68 on revenue of $9.56 billion. That would represent 9% year over year growth. Visa's payment volume for the fiscal second quarter is expected to be $3.4 trillion. That's up more than 7% year over year. In terms of the current quarter outlook, Zacks says EPs of $2.83 on revenue of around $9.86 billion, which would be up about 11% year over year.
We'll see if they give any updates to full year outlook given tariff and economic concerns. Amex did maintain their full year outlook, but obviously, as I said, different kind of, you know, customer base there. I did see an analyst over at SSR say that Visa's international business could be slower than expected, saying the tariffs won't just affect tourism, but they'll have an impact on global ecommerce, which accounts for 40% of Visa's cross-border volume.
So we'll pay close attention to that as well. Visa is up about 2/10 of a percent today. They've been faring better than the overall market if you take a look. Up 7% year to date, outperforming Mastercard and Amex as well, about 26% over the past one year. But if you take a look at the proximity from that 52 week high, about about 8% away from that so far is high.
And so at this point now, so much of this depends on the economy, how the consumer spends, the businesses that they're spending, tariffs, the consumer, the economy, things that we just were talking about and what I haven't really mentioned much in the last hour or so is fed, fed uncertainty. If you lower rates, that could be good for folks who have credit card balances and they're using their credit cards a lot.
So the fed could also, if they have some clarity, that could help. That's if we get further fed cuts as well. Obviously the expectation is we won't see that next week. It seems like June is the next time, so we'll see if analysts ask visa about, you know, interest rates and the outlook there.
I will say if you take a look at the breakdown heading into this report, obviously investors pretty upbeat about visa based on the stock price performance. Analysts are as well 79% of analysts rate visa as a buy. Heading into this report. The median price target is 388, so about $50 higher than where it's currently trading.
And if you compare that to Mastercard, it's pretty similar. 76% of analysts rated as a buy. American Express not so much. The majority of analysts, almost 60% are in the hold camp there. So visa I guess the analysts the most bullish on visa. If you take a look at the buy percentages. All right. Did she say trading. All right.
We heard you say about where it's currently trading 3.38. So thank you for that Caroline Woods details there on visa. Could look ahead. And now Tim Bigham joins us of Options Strategist by alerts to take a look at this name and how you would approach a name like this. In an example trade please. Yeah absolutely.
And you know visa certainly bounced nicely off that 305 level once again. So has put in support kind of similar to the overall market here going forward. So not really looking for fireworks to the upside Post-earnings I don't think it will be threatening the all time highs at all here, even with a good number, but I think it could creep a little bit higher towards that kind of 350 level where it stalled out prior options market, implying about a 4% move, which would correlate right with that 350 strike price as well. So I'm kind of
guardedly bullish here. More capturing vol with this trade, going out, buying the traditional May 16th expiration, 350 calls selling this week's 350 calls, paying about a buck 65 for that. More importantly, really able to buy a five under 30 out at the traditional Maes in two weeks and sell over a 55 here to hedge with.
So capturing some very nice term structure, especially on a percentage basis. And it lines up right with that kind of technical overhang resistance at 350 and the expected market maker move up or boundary right around 350 as well. So kind of like this trade on all fronts here. You know I don't think you know anything big will happen not only with visa but with the you know, big stocks reporting tomorrow and Thursday.
I think the clarity that's lacking in this market will prevent any big rips to the upside here. But I think we could make a small move higher here generally on visa and in stocks as well. Just given that it seems like the damage has been done in the market and maybe we'll continue to grind higher, albeit a much slower pace, do you feel like the damage is done? I mean, would you even say that the bottom is in? I don't know, you tell me, what are your thoughts on the market? Big picture here.
Near term and long term. Yeah, absolutely. In fact, April 7th I actually charted out that I think we just put in a low at the 5000 level on the S&P. Kind of got lucky there. That proved to be the low here. I just think things got so overdone to the negative side, both on the technical basis, sentiment and everything else.
So I don't think we're going to, you know, move appreciably higher from here. 5500 is kind of a key swing point in the S&P. I think we're right there now trading just above it. We'll see if that kind of is a magnet for stocks going forward here. So we're seeing lower trading ranges as well. Those kind of big swings that we saw a couple of weeks back are starting to calm down a little here.
So I think the market will find kind of its you know place to hang out here. Valuations still not cheap on stocks. You're looking at price to sales on the S&P poking back up towards that three X level which proved to be a meaningful top twice the only two times it ever traded there. So rich valuations will I think you know be a headwind for stocks here.
Unless the fed really cuts aggressively which I don't see happening either. Do you need to be a contrarian in this market, Tim? I mean to try and take some risks. And is that what you have to be here? I think put on more your trader cap here, you know, sell rallies, buy dips. And now the rallies are a little less, you know, big to the upside, the dips a little less.
You know, kind of scary to the downside here. But I think, you know, key position size still relatively smaller than normal here. And absolutely as you alluded to, if everyone is getting out might be time to get in. If everyone is getting in, might get time to get out that old Warren Buffett adage, right buy when others are fearful and be fearful when others are greedy.
Tim Bigham, option strategist, buy alerts.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4GhGO55GfTw&t=67s
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English - CC1
English (auto-generated)
Welcome back to Market on Close. I'm Caroline Woods, live from the New York Stock Exchange. It's time to focus on the state of AI. For that, let's welcome in Dave Nicholson, chief research officer at the Futurum Group. Dave, thanks so much for joining the show. Absolutely. Hey, Caroline, how are you? I'm great.
So, Dave, we know the state of the AI trade actually holding up pretty well. Today in April has been a pretty good month for tech. Not so much in terms of year to date numbers here, but I'm curious. We know the AI trade has been under pressure. Has anything changed about the AI story? This AI revolution? I don't think anything has changed in terms of the real story.
The real revolution will continue for years. We're at the very, very beginning stages. It's just that the closer you get to any individual company that's involved or any individual technology, the more chaotic it will appear. So Co-opetition is the name of the game in this battle as as folks cooperate and compete with one another moving forward.
And that is going to that's going to yield lots of chaos. The closer you get to the situation. Co-opetition I like that. That's a new one for me. I just I just wrote it down and spell check doesn't doesn't know that one either. But you know, obviously we have four of the Mega seven reporting this week. We'll continue to hear from tech names throughout the next month.
Plus, what are you expecting to learn this earnings season, especially from some of these tech companies as it relates to the AI narrative? So I really am looking at some of the things. Great example is what meta is doing around Lamakaan, their user conference, where they're seeking to take something that you could argue is a product or a feature of their platform and create more of an ecosystem around it.
So I'm really digging in under the covers to see how Google and Apple and Amazon and Meta at all are seeking to create their own walled gardens, sometimes gardens without walls, but walled gardens nonetheless, to deliver the kind of user experiences that we will demand moving forward. Right now, the big hurdle to overcome is managing our private data in a way that allows us to have these virtual assistants that can behave like a virtual assistant.
So Alarm.com is Meta's basically first AI developer conference. I believe it's going on right now, actually. Yeah. So we'll be sure to look for headlines from that in terms of what we could hear from meta and some of its competitors or other Mag seven members that haven't been performing so magnificently this year.
What is the impact of tariffs? Obviously, for a company like Apple, it's much more clear, right? Because it's a product that could be coming from China, that could be have tariffs slapped on it. But for names like Meta or Microsoft or, you know, some of the others that don't have clear products coming from a place, what could the tariff impact be? Tariffs.
Not a good thing from any perspective. And the issue right now is the uncertainty. So that uncertainty does not help the prospects for results. Even if you don't have a direct to consumer product like Apple does, your cost structure is massively affected, especially when you're consuming anything that's coming out of China.
Just to be just to be blunt. So I think that everyone is hoping for a resolution, kind of sane agreements to be hammered out over the next 90 days. It's really impossible to predict what's going to happen. I'm hopeful that we'll get to a place where where earnings won't be affected as much by the whims of tariffs, but instead we can look at business fundamentals moving forward, the kinds of things like, you know, how much is a Google or a Microsoft, an alphabet or a Microsoft transitioning from Nvidia infrastructure to their own
bespoke infrastructure. Those are really interesting conversations to have because, again, competition, they affect a lot of players in this space. True, true. We talked to your colleague yesterday, actually about the U. S lead over China in terms of technological advancements. And then this threat of Huawei, potentially for Nvidia specifically, how much of a threat do you think China is right now in terms of our lead for in terms of the US's lead for AI? Very much a threat.
I would say that in some areas they actually have advantages. You could argue that the way their political system works in concert with business is an advantage that they will continue to exploit. I would say never, ever, ever underestimate them. Don't relegate China to a place that simply steals intellectual property. That is not the case anymore.
I'm sure there's a fair amount of that, but. But they absolutely are leading in innovation in certain areas. So it's going to be a clash of two titans. We're in the midst of a cold war associated with AI. Hopefully the result of that is that we all get better because of that competition. No one can sit back and rest on their laurels in terms of other trends we should be monitoring in this space.
What's on your radar? Right, Anthony, I really think Apple is the one to watch to see. You know, some have said that they believe that Apple is falling behind to steal a phrase from a great song from Hamilton. I think they're lying in wait. In fact, going back to this idea of data sovereignty and how you package up people's data, it will be critical for these walled environments to be created for us to leverage, at least as consumers and also as businesses, the best of AI.
So watch for the development of these platforms and the coalescence of these ecosystems around companies. Measure whether meta at Lamakaan has really convincing people that their bet, as opposed to the sort of Gemini two five bet from Alphabet and Google, which is going to take hold. Those are the things to watch for long term as we think about stock performance.
I was joking, but it's true. The Mag seven hasn't been performing magnificently unless you include Netflix in there. The that's the real bright spot here. Do you think that as we go forward throughout this year that will continue to clump these magnificent stocks together, or we'll start to see some kind of outpace the others and others fall behind, because right now they're all kind of falling behind.
Yeah, it's a bit it's a bit silly. Yeah, it's a bit silly to have to, to have Tesla compared to some of the other companies. As an example, I would argue that if you want to be more sane, let's have the eight Aces and add Broadcom to the list. So it's a bit arbitrary. I think that a lot of future plans for massive growth are baked into the valuations of all of these companies.
I think that they're warranted over the long haul. But yeah I suspect that the Mag seven, maybe a year from now will have some other grouping of stocks. All right. Maybe the eight Aces. We'll have to we'll have to see and cooperation. I'm going to start using that if I can. Competitio. Competition. Competition. Okay.
There you go. All right.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IaxZR4yCHV8&t=16s
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English (auto-generated)
[Music] Welcome back to Yahoo Finance. Coca-Cola shares popping after topping expectations for its first quarter earnings. Let's get right into it with the CEO of Coca-Cola, James Quincy. James, always nice to get some time with you. Welcome back to Yahoo Finance. Uh now, I just got off your earnings call. You're talking about how volume was impacted by by consumer sentiment weakening.
Volumes in North America down 3%. And you know, as you zoom out and you study the health of the US consumer, are they experiencing recessionary conditions given everything going on in the world as it pertains to the trade war? Um, look, I think we we had good global volume growth 2% globally and yes, there was a there was a decline in the US.
I think the as it relates to the decline in the US in Q1, it was much more a set of uh kind of factors specific to Q1. There was some very cold weather in January. Uh Easter is much later this year than previous years, which is a big selling period uh for us. And there was some consumer pullback uh more more specifically in some of the Hispanic uh areas of the country.
Um I I wouldn't call it recessionary at all. I think it was really much more idiosyncratic in terms of a few factors. Um because actually even though sentiment's been impacted as we come into April, you know, consumers are still out there spending. So I think it's more a continuation of certain consumer segments under pressure because of inflation coming out of last year.
Uh that we need to deliver affordability options and then some kind of specific reasons in Q1 and we we know what we need to fix. Uh we know what we need to focus on going forward and get back on our growth plan. I think as you say that given the current dynamics Q2 and Q3 could be a little choppy.
Uh but we know what we need to do as it relates to the US within the global portfolio. James, within that consumer weakness in North America, is it more pertaining to the shopper that goes to a supermarket to buy a couple bottles of soda or is it more confined to the convenience store channel, which in my view has always been viewed as a leading economic indicator? Look, if you look at the US business, the weakness in volume in Q1 was concentrating in what we call future consumption packaging, which is much more predominantly uh in in in
supermarkets or in kind of independent trade uh outlets rather than either convenience or uh the kind of away from home QSRs and all the away from home channels. So that's where the weakness was focused which I think is a partly an indication of some of the affordability pressure uh for the lower income consumers and some of the geopolitical reaction.
Um so that's why I think that with what our strategy that we're putting in place we can certainly begin to address that weakness uh while still maintaining uh good growth in the rest of the portfolio in the rest of the channels. James you're the second co of a large package goods company. Call out weakness in the consumer in the Hispanic consumer to me.
The other one was two weeks ago when I talked to Constellation Brand CEO Bill Nolan. Of course, they make Modell and Corona beer. He thinks it's because of the administration's uh immigration policies and other economic concerns. Would you agree with that assessment? Why is that Hispanic consumer under a lot of pressure? Um I I I'm not sure I would characterize it that way.
Look, I think that the Hispanic some of the Hispanic consumers in the in particularly in some of the southern states in the US and actually frankly in some of the northern states uh in Mexico there's a hu high degree of economic integration of the supply chain uh between those parts uh uh you know the Mexico particularly northern Mexico uh and the US and I think some of the the the uncertainty that's about exactly where is this going caused them to pull back a little in terms of spending.
Um I don't see that as a permanent feature. I think this will be worked through. Uh I think it's to some extent the newness of the news. Um so we believe if we focus on reinforcing that we got yes we got global brands but those brands are made local in every country around the world and the operations are local factories, the employees are local.
Um backed up with affordability and execution that we'll be able to uh see a kind of a normalized uh business with with with all our consumers including some of the Hispanic ones in those areas. James, I've had CEOs tell me privately they of global companies, they have started to see anti-American sentiment impact their businesses in various ways, notably on the top line.
Have you seen that with Coca-Cola? And then if so, how do you plan to respond? Look, I think the there have been waves in the past of, you know, anti-US sentiment uh for a whole series of reasons going back historically and I'm sure there'll be some in the future. Um so this not the first time there's been a bit of pressure on sentiment towards the US and we have seen in certain countries that happened this year as it happened uh the last couple of years for different reasons.
Um we have a very clear game plan as I said we may have a global brand portfolio but the operations are profoundly local. So by focusing in on the localess the the brands the the products in those country are made in those country by local workers largely using locally sourced ingredients um backed up with affordability and good marketing whilst you can't stop every problem and you don't bounce back immediately you do bring business back to where it was and so we have a very clear game plan on how to get that and we'll roll it out as and
where uh we see we see the pressures. The trade war of course James is impacting businesses in many different ways. How much this year will your cost be up because it's going to cost more to buy dispensing machines from overseas suppliers or concentrate or aluminum cans? I mean, do you have a number you can share? I don't have a number I can share because it's really putting a a focus on a very narrow uh cost lever within the business. Yes.
Wheel the company have to pay a little more for some dispensing as you said, maybe some maybe some orange juice, maybe the bottles for some resin and aluminum, but you got to take it in the round. I mean, you got to add to that. Well, what's happening with the underlying commodity price? What's happening to the exchange rate? Where do we sit with our hedged positions? And that's just talking about those those singular uh inputs.
You got to look across the whole broad spectrum of all the cost levers. And then every year there'll be some pluses and minuses. And I wouldn't call out any one uh because it's not rising above a massive uh spike and and within the managing the pluses and minuses of the cost levers. We have not as yet ourselves or our local bottling partners uh in the in the US seen a need to change our current pricing plans.
So you're not raising prices this quarter. We're not doing it out of cycle. Obviously prices went up because a whole set of normal things, last year's inflation, uh that's already happened. Uh but we're sticking to our current pricing plan, uh because you know, some things are more expensive and some things are less expensive and it all goes into the bundle.
Would you at least uh take a page of what looks to be what Amazon is doing reportedly today, listing tariff price related increases on its site? So if you're not going to take price increases, would you show consumers in full transparency this is what it would cost here and because of tariffs you're paying now more for Coca-Cola? I'm I'm I'm we don't break out elements of our cost structure anywhere across our cost structure.
I'm not sure why I would do it differently for one element. I mean then the next day you'll ask me well why didn't you show this piece and why didn't you show that piece? No, that's not how that's we're going to manage all the cost structure and we're going to we're going to offer it to the marketplace at a certain price and we believe through our marketing and our innovation and our commercial policies and our execution, our packaging, uh we will earn the right uh to to to to show the consumer that's good value for the products we offer. You made a great
point on the earnings call this morning, James, amongst uh many to be quite frank with you that we're not going to see empty shelves with Coca-Cola. I'm going to go into Walmart. I'm going to go into Target and we're not going to see supply chain disruptions for your product and that's certainly good.
But we're now we're hearing reports that you could see less imports from China to the US. There might be empty shelves around the products you sell at these retailers. I mean, how do you respond to that? And do you see this self do you see that being a headwind to your business? Um, I don't know the final answer to that question, Brian.
Um clearly, you know, if you look at uh data on uh shipping container bookings getting out into late May and early June, um there's a big drop now to what extent people have already brought it in and they've got plenty of stock. To what extent not, it's very difficult for me to tell across all these different sectors. I certainly can imagine there might be disruptions in other categories around uh beverages.
Uh, and I don't know whether that'll mean people do less less trips to the supermarket or they're actually, frankly, have more money to spend on the things that are there. It's very unclear. Um, I think we're going to find out, but there's nothing I can do about that. I need to focus on my game plan uh and keep executing the core growth strategy of the company.
And so, we'll keep turning up. Uh, we'll keep making sure that the shelves have our beverages on them. Uh, and we'll keep making them attractive uh for consumers. Uh lastly, James, over the course of seven years, while you've been in that seat as a CEO of Coca-Cola, you've driven a lot of innovation. Now, we've seen deal activity pick up in the beverage space in the past year or so.
What are you doing on the innovation front this year? And can you continue at the pace you have been driving the business over the past seven years given everything going on in the world? Uh we c we certainly need to we want to keep focusing on driving more innovation. Um and we will need to be ruthless about the innovation that doesn't work and double down on what does work.
But it's still you know emblematically this first quarter in the US the number one brand in US retail in terms of adding dollars of sales growth uh was Fair Life and there's still a long way to go. So we'll be innovating in new stuff. We just launched Simply Pop and we'll be doubling down on innovation to extend the runway on newish brands like Fair Life and of course doing innovation uh on the core mothership brand Coca-Cola which we did with with Orange Cream as well this quarter um to really keep making Coca-Cola relevant for the next
generation of consumers. So innovation will be a core piece of what we do and we we believe it will continue to drive our growth strategy. Keep turning out that fair life. James I use it all the time after my workouts. James Quincy, uh, chairman and co call. Always nice to get some time with you.
We'll talk to you soon.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iCEWzVu6AnA&t=23s
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
Bring in show music, please. Hi, I'm CNBC producer Katie Kramer. Today on Squawk Pod, new Trump tax cuts coming. House Ways and Means Chair Jason Smith. We're going to provide that certainty to the markets, the certainty the small businesses, the certainty to the families that they're going to have a very aggressive progrowth tax bill and a U-turn in the auto sector.
GM and the rest of the car industry are facing crippling tariffs. Former Ford CEO Mark Fields joins us. The automaker is going to look very closely on moving very fast to automate as much of the processes as possible. But the bottom line is yes, it will add jobs back here in the US. Plus, Canada votes the division of labor between the DOJ and the FTC and antitrust issues.
And Nike's in hot water with a shareholder over a billboard. Not a good ad anyway. Whoever wrote this copy was so ignorant. It's Tuesday, April 29th. Squawk Pod begins right now. Stand back by in 3 2 1 c. Good morning everybody. Welcome to Squawkbox right here on CNBC. We're live from the NASDAQ market site in Times Square.
I'm Becky Quick along with Joe Kernan and Andrew Ross Sorcin. Here we go on a Tuesday. Excuse me. Water went down. I caught you off guard. I side of my mouth. Not the side of my mouth. Down my, you know, the wrong pipe. I've heard you have a drinking problem. A water drinking problem. No, I mean drinking anything. Drinking anything.
Uh the White House is saying that the Trump administration is going to be moving now to reduce the impact of auto tariffs by lightening some levies that were placed on foreign parts in US manufactured cars and by preventing tariffs on foreignade cars from stacking on top of one another. Uh so the reductions expected to take place today when the president will travel to the heart of auto country in Michigan for a rally marking his first 100 days back in office.
CEOs of Ford and GM both praising the plan tariff changes. And so it's going to be interesting to see him in in in Michigan where all of this has had I don't know probably the biggest impact so far in terms of just how much anxiety it's created. Yeah. And it's uh it's a mixed bag. It's mixed back because some of the autos foreign automakers like so many of these things journal's got a pretty good piece u first one summary of the first 100 days uh basically starts with second terms are usually totally unsuccessful and this one in their view is starting
out um in that direction it'd be tough to to to change a lot they say a couple things are good seems like energy production is up quite a bit. Um, and the border, but then some of the negatives, uh, biggest change since Brettton Woods with Nixon, which brought in wage and price controls, uh, and Doge, uh, disappointing.
Didn't really change the trajectory of federal spending uh, like like it was promised. But interesting piece of journal's never been um, totally behind a lot. And they're anti on the editorial page. Yes. top top uh yeah but it's it's you know tomorrow's 100 days that's if you can't get Rupert's businessfriendly paper on your side for things who's going to be you're not getting it from the Washington Post or New York Time tell you that much top Republicans are working to chart a path forward on budget reconciliation on that package to pass President Trump's
big beautiful bill of his top priorities uh Treasury Secretary Scott Bessant held a meeting yesterday afternoon uh at the capital with other members of the so-called big six. That group includes House Speaker um Mike Johnson, Senate Majority Leader John Thun, the Senate Finance Chair, House Ways and Means Chair, and the National Economic Council Director Besson said he's hoping a reconciliation bill can be done uh by July 4th.
But key in the timetable will be the date on which the government hits its borrowing limit. Some people are talking about October or November for this bill being more likely. Um then you got elections and everything else. The Treasury Secretary said he doesn't know yet uh that exact date, but should have a better idea by next week.
Separately, the House Judiciary Committee has proposed transferring the FTC's antirust work to the Department of Justice as part of a budget reconciliation package. Those two agencies have shared federal antitrust jurisdiction for more than a hundred years. The idea has been proposed before and it's unclear whether the plan will make it through the reconciliation process, but I' I've always wondered why you had the FTC and the DOJ working separately.
Some of the arguments that have been pushed back have said that it would weaken the nation's antirust reviews, but I would think from the perspective of business, it would probably be good to have one organization, one place that you go to find out if you get the thumbs up, thumbs down. I always thought it was there was some argument talking about competition.
competition inside government to see who can be the tougher regulator. Well, that No, but there was always this idea that if you had different agencies that could compete with each other a little bit, maybe some would be better than others. Yeah. It just feels like it's it's probably tough to get the rules of the road when you're not. That's always always been the case.
The prime minister who will make Canada strong and Canada. Who's ready? Who's ready? Who's ready to stand up for Canada with me? Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney's Liberal Party winning Canada's federal election yesterday. The Liberals are projected to win more seats in Parliament than Canada's Conservatives, but they're short of an outright majority of seats.
Many believe the Liberals would lose yesterday's election, but vocal attacks from President Trump in recent months drove a surge in Canadian nationalism ahead of that vote. uh as late as yesterday morning uh Trump posting on Truth Social that Canada should become America's 51st state. So that continues to hang over a lot of the folks in Canada.
No, no, because I've talked to a bunch of them and there this is something that you know Well, he would have beat Trudeau and once Trudeau resigned all bets are off. Yeah, but there is a Canadian nationalism that was fueled. There is there is and they think might be a better way. I think yeah it's it has but uh I think you can see the on the poly market yeah when it's switched the Trump administration announcing investigations into Harvard University and the school's law review the probe comes from the departments of education
and health and human services which said that they were uh in response to potential violations of the title six of the civil rights act of 1964 that bars recipients of federal funds from engaging in race-based discrimination. Harvard says the school's committed to ensuring programs uh that it oversees comply with all applicable laws.
The developments came just hours after a federal judge agreed to expedite uh Harvard's lawsuit against the Trump administration, which has frozen more than $2 billion in federal funding uh for the school. Meanwhile, this is a fascinating story. billionaire investor Bill Aman saying that he has now spoken to Nike CEO Elliot Hill after the company received blowback for a billboard along the route of last Sunday's London Marathon.
The advertisement featured the phrase never again which is used by many as a reminder to heed the lessons of the Holocaust. Aman's persing square is one of Nike's biggest shareholders. In a post on X late last night, Aman said that Nike co had apologized for the ad. Aman said Nike is in the midst of a turnaround which makes mistakes more likely to occur with talent turning over etc.
Elliot is the right choice to fix the company and he clearly has a lot of work to do. I'm confident he will get it done. In a statement to CNBC, Nike said it did not mean any harm with that ad and apologized for uh any that it caused. It said that the copy used in the billboard campaign was based on common phrases used by runners. So that red background and everything else sort of not a good ad anyway just irrespective of any of it.
But they admitted it. Yeah, they admitted it. Yeah, but they didn't admit that they tried it because the United Colors of Benitin, do you remember? They tried the clickbait idea. A lot of places Oh, you think that was clickbait that was I just think that it was to get attention. Why you didn't have any idea that that that I don't know. I I don't know.
I wasn't there when they planned it, but just hard to believe. I don't believe No, no. I genu I genuinely believe everybody in the world knows what never again means. I believe that whoever wrote this copy was so ignorant. I I that they did not know what was really going on. And the truth is that I imagine and I have heard marathoners say after they finish a marathon like I'm never doing this again for the rest of my life.
Like once and done. I I think it was a complete mistake and I'm assuming that the in sort of a runner's world and maybe they're not focused on the geopolitical issues. I don't know what their religious background. I don't know anything. Such a narrow view. We are very focused and as a result it matters. See, my slogan would be never for the mar for for the marathon. True.
Because a body's not supposed to do that. Well, that's a whole separate topic. But I I I do think it was an accident. They screwed up. They admitted it. Black letter, red background. It just looked very austere. And if you put it in context with the rest of the Maybe, look, maybe I'm not being cynical enough. I don't know. I hope not.
That would be I I don't know. Maybe I'm too cynical. So, I know you're going to you're going to do the tease. This is it. We're early today. Andrew, it's good. I just But my question, your drinking problem is does it is it is it is it rare? Is it rare that that happens to you? Is it not? Have you noticed it happening more? I'm asking you for an age thing.
That's what I'm talking about because where the water goes down the wrong Yeah. I just looked it up and I have I definitely noticed. I mean, I have definitely noticed and it's very disconcerting because you're sitting there minding your own business and you've been doing this the right way your entire, you know, it's pretty easy to drink and and it just goes down the wrong way and it's like, you know, you just you have to be careful.
You can't talk and drink breaks loose. And I looked it up and it it happens more and more. But you're four, you you're not 50. Yes. And over 50 it starts over 50 it starts and paristalsis. I didn't have that. I felt it was just I was drinking trying to drink fast before my before I was up on the screen.
With you, it's not related to that. I'm just telling you, and it doesn't happen to everyone, but there it just it's a shocker and it just seems to happen more. I've got a lot of wisdom to impart to you as you since we're different ages, but as you go into the not the twilight, but the twilight will be next. Coming up on SquawkPod, House Ways and Means Chairman Jason Smith is the most influential lawmaker when it comes to tax policy.
It all happens in his committee. He says Trump's new tax plan is all about revenue, but the markets are more concerned about another metric. Will it expand the deficit? The House budget version is much different than the Senate budget version. And in fact, we are going to expand the growth in the economy.
What the GOP wants in the next big beautiful bill, plus an announcement from Amazon. All that is right after this break. Welcome back to Squawk Pod up and Q. You're watching Squatbox right here on CNBC. I'm Andrew Oscin along with Joe Kernan and Becky Quick. We got a lot going on this morning. Amazon is launching its first batch of internet satellites into space.
A United Launch Alliance rocket carrying 27 of these Kyper uh satellites lifted off from Cape Canaveral last night. Plans call for the satellites to separate from the rocket about 280 mi above the Earth's surface at which point Amazon will try to confirm that they can move around independently and communicate uh with the ground.
Amazon aims for Kyper to compete with Elon Musk Starlink and go into commercial operation uh later this year. Starling currently dominates the space-based internet industry. Has about 8,000 satellites in orbit. How did you know Kyper? How did you do you knew how to say that before? Do you want to know about Kyper or or is it waste time for you? Do you think it's it's good to know? I we you know we had the head of Kyper on the broadcast.
Do you know what why it's called Kyper? I don't know why it's called Kyper. Okay. Do you want to I I'm not going to waste your time. Okay. The Kyper belt was named by an astronomer Gerard Kyper. It's past the last planet. Some people say eight Neptune and it's a belt of icy bodies that goes around. One of his men, one of his students that that's famous that Gerard Kyper mentored was Carl Sean.
So he was a Dutch American astronomer. Carl Sean taught at Cornell. He's Carl Sean. It brings it all back brings it all back home. Now, see, I think that's interesting info, but I don't you know, there's times where you look at me and I know you did, but I'm going to ask him from now on.
I'm going to I'm going to ask you before I waste time. I'm much more focused on the idea though that if this works, there's going to be competition to the money side of thing. You're looking at the money side of thing. This guy revolutionized the way we look at the solar system and made it much more rigorous. And so, this is how we make might complement each other, but we're we're we're different.
But I'm going to ask you from now, tomorrow is 100 days uh into President Trump's second term in office as top negotiators met at the capital yesterday to discuss what's next for the Republicans mega bill uh and tax cuts. There are the uh what did it used to be? A group of se what were those the the gang of the gang of six or the magnificent seven.
Magnificent six and we've got one ways and means committee chairman, maybe the best of of all of them, Jason Smith, who was part of that meeting. Uh chairman, it's good to see you. It's good to see you as always. I I want you to tell me everything you know because everything that I want to ask you, I don't think we know anything.
We don't know what's in it. We don't know when it's going to be uh doable. We don't know when the writeups are, when the final votes are. Is there anything you can tell us definitively right now or at least give handicap what what's happening? What's in it and and when it's going to be? Absolutely, Joe. Um I will tell you that when it comes to markup and seen bill texts and legislation moving forward, we're days away, not months.
We're going to provide that certainty to the markets, the certainty the small businesses, the certainty to the families that they're going to have a very aggressive progrowth tax bill that makes permanent um Trump's expiring tax provisions from the 2017 tax cuts and jobs act, but also delivering on his campaign promises when it comes to no tax on tips, no tax on overtime, tax relief for seniors.
These are all things that will be in this bill moving forward. Some of that pay for was going to be letting the the top rate go back up. Now that's off the table. Is there any other way to make it less u you know causing less addition to the deficit? First off, Joe, let me say that um as the tax writer, the Ways and Means chairman, I've been reading a lot of news reports talking about we're going to do X, Y, and Z, whether it's a top bracket, whether it's salt, whether it's um various IRA credits.
And I'm like, wow, that's interesting. And so, there's been a lot of reporting and a lot of hysterical um releases that's been out there that's just simply not accurate. When this bill comes out, Joe, people will see exactly what it is. We're going to have a progrowth tax bill that the markets will love and that the markets will appreciate which the small businesses will love, the small business businesses will appreciate because it's going to be extremely progrowth and it's going to be led by progrowth tax policies. All right. Then the I mean
that would hurt small businesses if you went from 37 back to and the president can you say that that's that's been put to that's not going to happen. President Trump said that's not going to happen. Can you tell me that at least Joe? What I will say is is the tax bill is all about growth and people can extrapate extrapolate what progrowth is.
But we are going to deliver real tax relief for businesses, small businesses, working families and farmers. It is going to be progrowth and the markets will love it. Uh Chairman Smith, we had Libby Cantrol here from PIMCO yesterday and and she said exactly that that this is going to be a very progrowth bill that is put forward. I I asked her what that meant.
Um if it means that there's not going to be pay force for these things if it expands the deficit and she said yes, she believes that's the case. Is that what you see it as as well? There's absolutely going to be provisions that eliminate bad tax policy and replacing it with better tax policy. We did that in 2017.
We're going to do it throughout this process. But will it eliminate a lot of different loopholes? Will it expand the deficit? It will the house budget version is much different than the senate bud budget version and in fact we are going to expand the growth in the economy and that's the key if you look at the revenues coming into our country right now under the current Trump tax cuts that are current policy current law GDP towards um revenue is 17.2% 2%.
If you look at over the last 50 years, it has averaged 17%. We are going to maintain and grow that. My question though is will it expand the deficit? Because you describe progrowth as market friendly. Markets definitely want to see lower taxes. But if it expands the deficit, um that could be something that worries the bond market. Well, let me tell you, the deficit is only expanded by spending.
If you look at over the last 5 years, when you look at spending to GDP, it has averaged 26% of GDP. The 45 years before that, spending to GDP averaged 20%. 20%. We have a spending problem. We do not have a revenue problem. What I'm working on the tax bill is in regards to the revenues that go into our coffers. Since we passed the 2017 successful Trump tax cuts, the corporate revenue receipts, even at a 21% rate, when we went from 35 to 21, has only increased dramatically.
We are going to have progrowth policies. It's going to increase the revenue for our country. I I I understand that and I I I get what you're saying that I agree with your math on that in terms of Well, how will it be scored? It'll be scored that the deficit goes up. Will it extend the deficit? It'll be scored that way, right, Congressman? You can do fuzzy math.
It'll be scored that way that it that the deficit goes up. Let me just say how how congressional scorekeepers are just eliminating the $22 billion that is left from the inflation reduction act for from from for the IRS. Remember, there was $80 billion. There's 22 billion that has not been spent just to eliminate that.
According to those congressional scorekeepers, it would cost us $65 billion. So, the scorekeepers sometimes just don't put apples and oranges together. What I'm saying is is the revenues are going to increase and the growth is going to be exponential. You would hope, but but those are, you know, whether they're right or wrong, when when it is scored, uh probably you you're going to see that go.
What about Medicare and I'm sorry uh Medicaid and and the numbers thrown around. Do do you have a better idea of what it's going to be? It's somewhere around 900 billion. What is that over over 10 years? And then there's arguments about whether it's a cut in the the projected growth of Medicaid, not in the the program itself.
But then there's other say others that say you'd have to cut or do some I don't know right to work or what whatever you'd have to do some things to get um existing payouts would have to be uh cut not just future growth. C can you explain and and how do you get all the Republicans on board with that to some of the ones that might want to cut more or some of the ones in districts that are at risk that might want to cut less? Joe, you hit the big challenge at hand.
It's threading that needle because we have some members on various different issues, whether it's spending cuts, whether it's different um different tax provisions. Um we have to thread that needle. We have to get that balance. There's 11 different committees that is part of this big beautiful bill as the president would say.
And the committee that is completely over Medicaid is energy and commerce. Our committee of course is completely over the revenues, the tax provisions. There's a lot of things that the energy and commerce committee is that that they can look at and that they are looking at. Um, one thing that could be a revenue raiser within Energy and Commerce's space is selling spectrum.
This is one thing that's within theirs that can bring in a lot of money that's not being projected. The president has been crystal clear when he's looking at this bill and spending cuts. He wants to make sure that he protects individuals benefits. He said that you would not cut Medicare, Social Security, Medicaid, but are there efficiencies that can be put in there? Absolutely.
You know, one thing that has been raised numerous times is work requirements, but this is all within the energy and commerce's space. I'm not an expert in it. I'm focused on the the $4.5 trillion tax bill, but it's it's all going to add up in the ultimately end. But just that it was a big ask. Sounds like I'm saying something else. It it was a it was a big ask to be able to extend I mean there's a reason that those uh the 2007 uh teen build wasn't permanent.
Jason, you remember that? It's cuz it it was it was a deficit uh buster and everybody's been worried. How do you extend it? And not only are you extending it, but you're getting all these other uh tax cuts that you're putting into and you're still saying that it's not going to be a deficit buster. And the numbers are are are just troubling for for and you know, I know Dem no one worries about the deficit.
You look at how how Biden spent and we we know we can with the reserve currency of the world. We can get it done. But do you not worry that you know history's going to look back and say there the there go again, both parties just blow out. I mean, you're counting on growth, but the numbers probably don't lie.
So, let's just look at this, Joe. Just in the four years of the Biden presidency, he added more than 10 trillion almost a third. You're opening yourself up to the same uh issue. When will it actually be signed? Uh, Mr. Kim, you think it's it's in the summer or all the way out into the fall? You know, I don't have a crystal ball, but what my goal is, my goal as the chief tax writer is to have it delivered for the American people by July 4th.
I think that that's very doable. And as long as we continue to work handinand glove with the United States Senate, which we have been, we'll be able to accomplish this. The American people are expecting this. We're going to provide imminent growth and tax policies that are transformational. When you look at the 2017 tax cuts, Joe, that you were talking about, there was numerous provisions within that that were were permanent, such as the corporate tax rate was permanent from 35 to 21%.
In this tax bill, there will be numerous things that are made permanent. Not everything, but numerous items will be because we're looking at the debt, the deficits. It's extremely important. The House is more focused on that than the other side of the building. Well, the top the 37 will be permanent. Then on the top right, we're going to have progrowth tax policies that you're going to love.
God, let me ask you one more. See if you can do it, Chairman. Let me let me ask you one more. I I know you can't tell us exactly what the final bill is going to look like. That's still a negotiation. Can you tell us where the toughest sticking points are? Where where do you have the hardest cell? Where is the things that are on the Where are the things that are on the margin? Yeah, without a doubt.
I think there's three areas that are going to be major significant sticking points. It has been throughout the process. It's going to continue to be. One is to make sure that we cut enough spending that puts our our our 15 to 25 members that are very concerned about debt and deficits that this is what they wake up every morning thinking about.
We have to thread the needle there. Make sure that everyone's feeling good. When you look at um salt, salt is another thing that's very big to our members from New York, New Jersey, California. We have to thread that needle. We have individuals within our conference that wants an unlimited salt cap. We have others that want no deduction on salt.
We're threading that needle. Another item is within all the IRA credits. We're looking at every provision of the tax bill. And so there's some members that want to rip out the entire IRA by its roots and there's others that want to use a scalpel approach. So it's a balancing act, threading the needle, but we're going to get this done.
I think you're not listening to President Trump. I mean, I I heard him say it, uh, Chairman, Mr. Chairman, he said he's publicly said there will not be a top income tax um, rate going back up above above the 37. It would be very disruptive. Are you trying to talk him into it or would you He's got members who are want to cut the debut and deficit and that's a big part of it pay for he's in charge.
He's in charge, isn't he? If you write it into it, he might Yeah. Go ahead, Joe. Just let me say you I have a great relationship with the president. I talk to him very he is going he is going to love the tax bill and we're going to follow through with his priorities. That's what we're going to do. 77 million people sent him to Washington.
We have the House and the Senate because President Trump was elected president. We are going to deliver his priorities. I'm his biggest advocate. I'm not trying to talk him out of anything. I'm delivering what he is asking. Yeah. You've got members you have to appease. We just got this list.
So the ones who want to cut the debt deficit, 15 to 20 members, they're going to speak. Get that 26% down. That's how you got to do it. And I don't know how you do that either, but that's what you not that you don't got to do the 17. You got to do the 26. Mr. Chairman, thanks. Next on Squawkpod, General Motors is reassessing its fullear guidance in light of potential tariff policy, but even more changes may be coming down the road.
How automakers are dealing with what the White House wants from their industry with former president and CEO of Ford, Mark Fields. They're putting these, you know, probably big analytic groups in their purchasing areas and deciding looking at their their parts footprint and their suppliers and saying what parts are best for automating so that if we have to bring this these kind of parts back, we can spend the capital expenditures, automate, reduce the amount of labor.
Plus, what to expect from President Trump's Mottown announcement today. Is he backing off on tariffs for Detroit? We'll be right back. You're listening to SquawkPod from CNBC. Here's Joe Kernan. All right, this should be good. GM uh is out with its earnings and we'll see what's happening given all the the the backdrop. Philo joins us now with the numbers.
Hey, Phil. Hey, Joe. This is a beat on the top and the bottom line for General Motors in the first quarter. The company earning 278 a share. The street was expecting 274. revenue coming in slightly better than expected at 44.02 billion about a billion dollars uh more than was expected allin adjusted EBIT of 3.
549 billion better than uh the estimate of 3.42 billion the adjusted margin is 7.9% for North America GM made 3.28 billion that's less than the first quarter of last year when they made 3.84 84 billion and they brought in about $45 million from China. That's an improvement compared to just an awful couple of years in China.
Remember, they took that huge right down and charge last year. I think what several billion dollars. So, they made $45 million in the first quarter in China as they restructure that business. Average transaction price $50,700. That's up about $1,000 per vehicle compared to the same quarter a year ago.
And here's the news that people will be focused on. General Motors is reassessing its 2025 guidance due to the potential impact of tariffs. There will be an impact. They just don't know to what degree. And as a result, they are not sticking by the guidance that they gave in January for 2025. And they are now reassessing, that's the word they're using, their guidance on tariffs.
We should get more details regarding how General Motors sees the landscape, especially in North America with regard to tariffs when the company does its conference call, not today, but on Thursday. And we'll talk about why in just a little bit. We'll also have a first on CNBC interview with General Motor CEO, chair, and CEO Mary Bar.
That will be on Squawkbox Thursday morning. And the reason that they are delaying the conference call and this interview with Mary is because the president will be in Detroit tonight where he's expected to announce the modifications and the offsets for the tariffs that should provide a little bit of relief to the automakers.
Exactly how much remains to be seen in terms of maybe not stacking the tariffs like steel and aluminum on top of the 25% imported auto tariff. also giving some relief in terms of supplier tariffs which are supposed to kick in starting on Saturday or Sunday. Uh so the bottom line is this guys, we'll find out on Thursday from General Motors how it is planning to offset these tariffs because they're still going to face higher costs.
The question is do they have a better sense after the president's announcement. Did they say anything? We used to wait for you to tell us what they said about EV uh production until the tariffs came out. anything at all about that they're just on track or where were they the last couple of times I report Phil were they pairing it back significantly or No no no they continue to ramp it up they have stood by their projections in terms of EV production as well as EV sales now the interesting thing Joe there's more
than a few people who are out there saying you've got capacity at factory zero which is being uh toolled to make electric vehicles uh in the Detroit area do they change that? Do they say, "Look, we've got to move some production and therefore one of the steps we're taking is to move some production into factory zero and scale back EV production there.
" But in terms of EV production in Spring Hill uh and sell production, we were there last year during the uh annual meeting for the uh for General Motors. No, they're they're sticking with that as of right now. Let's see on Thursday. You know, they could say something completely different come Thursday after they get a better sense from the Trump administration tonight about these offsets and modifications to the tariffs.
I was going to joke around and say, have they sold one yet? But what which ones are the It's the Equinox. Actually, they're number two in the US, Joe. Okay, Joe. They're number two in the US from the Equinox. Equinox is a big one. Yeah. What else? Uh it's not just the Equinox, but they've got some other vehicles as well. I mean, there's an electric Silverado now.
Chevy Blazer. I mean, they they have they have more than just one electric vehicle. Now, they're a distant uh you know, number two in terms of market share or number three. I think Hyundai's technically number two. Um but General Motors uh as an automaker has dramatically improved its EV sales relative to where they were.
Joe, I know you're going to sit there and say, "How much are they?" But relative to where they were, they've improved their EV sales. And on Ford, the Mustang, is that an EV now for that little crappy looking thing that that Well, they make they make both the traditional internal combustion car. And then now it looks like a almost looks like a uh and then they make the Mache there.
There is an electric version of the Mustang which is built in Mexico. It is for now. Okay. Hey, Phil, how how much of of GM's the production comes from either Canada or Mexico? And and how do you figure that out with the parts that are coming across too? Well, with the parts that makes it a little bit trickier. They do not have as much US-based production as Ford.
Um Ford has the most uh in this country, but what they're doing is they where possible, Becky, they are shifting some production. Good example is they make the full-size pickup trucks uh some of them down in Mexico. What are they doing? They're shifting some of that production up to the plant in Fort Wayne, Indiana, where they also make full-size pickup trucks, and they're going to increase their production, I think, annually by something like 50,000 vehicles.
Um, trying to take up some of the excess capacity there. Those are some of the steps that they're taking. All right, thanks, Phil. More to come obviously about on Thursday. Joining us right now to talk about it, Mark Fields, former Ford Motor Company president and CEO and a CNBC contributor.
Uh, tell us what kind of sigh relief may or may not be taking place in Detroit this morning. Mark. Well, I think Andrew that, you know, the OEMs get a partial win, but at least what was reported, uh, these tariffs are going to alleviate some of the duties on some of the imported parts and also for, uh, you know, keeping tariffs on cars that are imported into the US, you know, different tariffs stacking on top of each other.
So, I guess the net of it is it's it's a pullback on the margins. Uh, as I said, the OEMs get a partial win, but it's not a wholesale elimination of the tariff. Um, and I'm sure Andrew there was some kind of pridquo uh with the Trump administration in terms of the OEMs either committing to moving some production back to the US or also alternatively advocating very strongly in their supply base to move some of the parts manufacturing particularly for those less labor intensive parts to come back to the US.
So a bit of a sire relief but you know the bottom line is those tariffs are still there. It's going to increase the automakers costs and they're going to have to make a decision on how much do they pass on to consumers versus how much do they eat themselves. Of course, the president has promised to try to bring manufacturing back to the US.
When you say that the OEMs may have promised to bring things back or to push on suppliers to do the same kind of thing. How quickly do you think that happens and what does that do to the cost base? Well, in some cases it's it could be quicker than others. Let's uh use GM as an example. They produce full-size pickups uh down in Mexico and they have a plan I believe in Indiana and they've said they're going to pull in about a 100,000 units of the 400,000 units they make down there uh to Indiana.
So that can happen relatively quickly. But in other cases, you know, when you're looking at products that are made outside the US and let's say you have some capacity, open capacity here in the US, it's going to take, you know, at least, you know, 18 to 24 months at least to refacilitize those plants to allow that particular product to come back into the market, particularly if it's on what they call a different platform.
Uh, and then secondly, you know, if you're looking to uh to build a plant, you know, let's use an example. uh Hyundai Kia imports about 65% of their vehicles from Southside the US and with this 25% tariff from vehicles coming from Korea you know they'll build a plant and they're just bringing online for example a plant that they started back in 2019 2020 so you're looking five years there but it's going to be a combination of you know short timelines but also some medium to long timelines and then there's two related questions what kind of jobs does that mean do you
think that we're going to be seeing in the US? Are most of those factories uh humans? Are those robots? What does that actually look like? And and then what does it do to the cost base? Yeah. Well, first off on the cost base, the cost base is going to go up, right? Because you know when you're using you know labor costs that are much less in other parts of the world uh you know that that's going to increase your cost base.
But in terms of the labor, this is what's most interesting Andrew and it's a great question. You know, a lot of times in the automakers, we used to look at the labor content and we used to say, how much of that could we automate and we'd look at the cost of what it would the capital expendure cost to actually automate and buy the machinery versus uh just making the production overseas in lower labor cost areas.
So, I think what the automakers are are doing right now, first off, they're deciphering, you know, what do these changes mean? And, you know, they'll come out a little later today. So they have to understand the the reality. Then they're putting these you know probably big analytic groups in their purchasing areas and deciding looking at their their parts uh footprint and their suppliers and saying what parts are best for automating so that if we have to bring this these kind of parts back we can spend the capital expenditures automate reduce the uh
amount of labor and that's a more compelling business case than it was let's just say last year. So it doesn't lead to more jobs like that's the question. Yeah. Well, incrementally, yes, it will lead to more jobs, but it's not going to be a one for one. Uh I think the automakers are going to look very closely on moving very fast to automate as much of the processes as possible.
But the bottom line is yes, it will add jobs back here in the US. It will add investment uh because the automakers are going to be investing in capital equipment. Uh but it's not going to be a one for one uh tradeoff between what's you know employment overseas versus employment here in the US. Real quick, we got General Motors, Ford, Stellantis on the screen.
We probably should have Tesla on that screen as well. Um who do you think is the winner of this little situation right now? Is there a winner and a loser? Well, nobody's a winner in this, Andrew, for the very fact, as we talked about earlier, the cost for the automakers are going up. and it could be costs for consumers going up.
But relatively speaking, uh particularly if some of these changes that were reported by the Wall Street Journal last night on auto parts come through, I think the biggest winner is Tesla because, you know, they they have all of their production here in the US. Uh they're getting a lot of parts from overseas, but if these changes take into effect, they'll be a winner.
I think Ford also you know they're also producing 80% or assembling 80% of their vehicles here in the US. I think GM and Stalantis are going to be more challenged. Stalantis uh imports probably over 50% of their vehicles uh into the US. Uh GM about the same number. Uh and importantly, you know, GM and Stalantis produce a number of their full-size pickups which are big profit makers in some cases outside the US.
So that's going to hurt them more than let's say uh GM. And then finally, I I got a sort of techy question for you because there's been a little bit of debate about it. Um we heard from uh Google last week. They talked a lot about uh Whimo and and that earnings report. The first time they've talked about Whimo.
Tesla starting its robo taxi program in two months in Austin. Of course, Elon Musk has also talked about really having a massive uh robo taxi program where people are going to be effectively using their cars as robo taxis and sort of selling them or leasing them into fleets and things like that. Um, how far do you think Tesla is in that game versus where Whimo is and what does that look like to you long term? Well, when you look at Whimo versus Tesla, let's just just look at permits and the ability to operate.
I mean, Whimo is way ahead of Tesla in terms of getting the permits to operate their their their vehicles. I mean, when I go to San Francisco, I take Whimo all the time. They're they're already in the market there. They're in a couple other markets. Uh Tesla still needs to get the permits uh from, in this case, in California, from the California authorities.
I think secondly, listen, uh you know, Whimo has proven over the years, they're in five or six different cities now. Uh Tesla has talked a lot about this, but again, they're using a different technology. They're using cameras versus LAR, which is Whimo is is using. And so I think technologically speaking, it's still a big question mark how these Tesla vehicles are actually going to perform in some of these cities with a different technology, albeit, you know, they've mapped a lot of those cities because they have a lot of cars out there. So when do you think we know?
Question. When do you think we'll know whether whether Tesla's without LAR whether Tesla cars can can can fully do it? I mean, do you think that this Austin experiment will prove the point or not and you'll know after a month or two? Yeah, I think you're going to know relatively soon because in each of those states, you're going to have to report incidents.
And you know, if you have Tesla that's launching in June and let's say Austin, you're going to know in a couple of months, are there incidence rates higher than Whimo? So, I think you're going to know pretty quickly how they perform. Okay, Mark, want to thank you for joining us as always, especially on this Newsy Morning. Deont announcing the name of the planned spin-off of its electronics business.
Okay, I want you guys to look at this impromptu so you see how it's spelled. There it is. Can I buy a U? N I T Y. Apparently, it's pronounced quinity. It says that the name is inspired by Q, which is the symbol for the electrical charge and unity. It says the name reflects Roll up cuz I have no idea what it reflects.
the collaborative way that it works with customers. Unity is the letter. No, this is a very Don't do it. It's not too late. I guess Unity is already taken. I looked that one up. Unity is taken by a company. Oh, Unity. Unity. There used to be a computer company called Unity. And there's a 3D creation platform and software company that's called Unicus.
And then I thought there was another one called Unity because Infinity is taken. So it went with Unity. Oh, how much did that cost? That's going to be really tough. If this was us cuz we have we we have a we're awaiting our own spin right now. If they came up with community, I'm leaving. I'll go. They're like promise.
And that is Squawk Pod for today. Thanks for listening. Squawkbox is hosted by Joe Kernan, Becky Quick, and Andrew Ross Sorcin. You can tune in weekday mornings on CNBC at 6 Eastern. Get the smartest takes and analysis and interviews from our TV show right into your ears when you follow SquawkPod wherever you like to listen to podcasts.
We'll meet you right back here tomorrow. We are clear. Thanks, guys. Thank you guys so much. [Music]
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oNFcBW8AwKI
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
Shares of Oddity Tech soaring in the after hours as the consumer tech firm boosts its net revenue guidance for the full year and announces a beat on the top and bottom lines. For more on the numbers, let's welcome in now Lindseay Duckerman, Oddity Global CFO as well as Yahoo Finances, Julie Hyman.
Of course, it is good to see you here on set. So, your report, your stock is ripping in the after hours. You're up more than 21% right now. What walk us through the report? What are you seeing in the business? Listen, I think in a moment like today where there's a lot of uncertainty in the environment, you look at oddity and our results have been very consistent.
This is um two years since we went public. We've reported eight times. Every single time we've reported results, we've beat on the quarter and we've raised our fullear outlook. And the reason we're able to do that with so much consistency is because what's affecting our business is so much more powerful than disruption and volatility and consumer spending.
And it's pretty straightforward. Number one, we compete in a very large and attractive global TAM. Beaut's $600 billion dollars in size. It's um dominated by offline incumbents and ripe for disruption in our view. Number two, there's two very powerful shifts happening in the category. The first is the consumers shifting online.
Uh and the second is that the consumer shifting towards um high efficacy scienceback products and those are two areas where we're leading. And the third is that we've proven to be a brand scaling machine. So our first brand, Ilmakage, crossed 500 million of revenue last year. It's one of the largest beauty brands in the country.
Our second brand, Spoiled Child, we think we'll get to 200 million of revenue this year. It's we only launched it three years ago. We have a third brand that we affectionately call brand three right now, which will launch later this year. It's a telealth platform for people with medical grade skin and body issues to start with, but we're expanding into other medical domains after.
We have a fourth brand that's on tap for 2026. So, um, our business is performing very very well. We are incredibly bullish about the future right now. Um, it's a time where we see a lot of companies playing defense. We're in the very fortunate uh position where we can continue to play offense. Our goal is to become one of the biggest beauty companies in the world and these are our objectives.
Um so to take a step back and look at the numbers again and you guys saw impressive growth of 27% in revenue. You also raised your outlook. Yeah. Which is not something we're hearing from a lot of companies right now. And in the statement um talk about tariffs being manageable. Y where are you guys sourcing from and what are you seeing in terms of that that tariff change? Yeah.
So we we um have told the market that our objective um is to deliver sustained 20% revenue growth every year at a 20% um adjusted EBIT margin. And of course this quarter we delivered significantly ahead of that and it's really a function of demand is very strong online for our products. Um not just for people first making their first purchase with us uh but also our repeat is excellent.
So, um, part of how we run our brands is to develop, um, very high quality brands with great products that she wants to keep coming back to over and over again. So, repeat has been a really strong driver for us, and that's a very, um, consistent part of our business. As it relates to tariffs, we're really in the fortunate position, and we say this in our release, that it's going to be a manageable headwind for us.
First of all, because we have high gross margins, we're a 70%ish gross margin um, business. Uh, we're guiding to 71% for the full year. actually raised our gross margin guidance from 70% to 71%. Um so starting with we have a favorable cost structure but also we just don't have that much exposure to um the most challenged areas.
Most of our costs come out of Europe. Uh and so we also are doing a lot of things to mitigate the impact to our P&L. We have other cost efficiency programs happening internally but all in it's a very again manageable headwind for us this year will be a manageable headwind for us again next year. Do you expect to be raising prices? We're not planning on it.
We don't think we need to and we don't plan to. So, you'll take it from the cost part of it. Yeah. Again, it's it's not a enormous um it's not a very material headwind for us and we have a lot of offsetting factors, so we don't think we'll need to. Gotcha. Lindsay, thanks so much for your time today.
Appreciate it. Great. Thanks guys.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GZV49GXWpkQ&t=81s
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
Today, Bitcoin holds steady below $95,000. The DOJ requests a 20-year sentence for former Celsius CEO Alex Mashinsky. And Chris Maurice of crypto payments firm Yellow Card discusses regulatory developments around stable coins in the US. Welcome to CNBC's Crypto World. I'm Talia Kaplan. Crypto markets in the green this morning.
As of noon Eastern, Bitcoin climbed 1% trading under the $95,000 level. Ether rose 3% to more than $1,800 and Salana traded at $148. Okay, let's talk about the top stories. Fintech bank SoFi plans to bring back crypto investing. CEO Anthony Notto told CNBC the plan comes after a quote fundamental shift in the regulatory landscape under the Trump administration.
In late 2023, the fintech firm was forced to drop crypto investing as part of becoming a regulated bank. Notto told CNBC that new guidance from the acting head of the office of the comproller of the currency led SoFi to plan an aggressive return to crypto. Speaking on CNBC Squawkbox this morning, Notto stressed that the regulatory environment for crypto is evolving, which will allow his company to offer crypto coins in the firm's Invest product.
He says he hopes to make that happen within the next 6 months. Notto also said SoFi plans to enter crypto and blockchain activities in a much broader and more significant way. We want to be able to offer blockchain products and crypto products across every area that we're currently in. So across lending, across paying, across uh investing uh and as well as protecting.
We think it's a technology uh more than anything else and we can use it to allow people to pay easier at lower cost to pay faster and over time be able to capture some of the opportunity by providing infrastructure services to third parties via our technology platform. So it really will cut across every element of our business.
Next, Donald Trump Jr. co-founded a new private members club that includes crypto executives. Sources tell CNBC that the club called Executive Branch kicked off with a launch party on Saturday. Attendees included at least a half dozen members of the Trump administration including SEC chair Paul Atkins along with CEOs, tech founders, and policy experts.
On the crypto side, sources also tell CNBC that crypto investors Cameron and Tyler Winkleboss are founding members along with White House cryptozar David Saxs. The club, which costs half a million dollars to join, was launched with the help of Omid Malik and Christopher Buskerk of 1789 Capital, as well as Alex and Zack Witkoff, the sons of billionaire real estate investor and friends of President Trump, Steve Whit.
The news comes as Democrats on Capitol Hill continue to raise concerns tied to the Trump family's crypto ventures. On Friday, Senators Elizabeth Warren and Adam Schiff sent a letter to the US Office of Government Ethics asking for an inquiry after Trump's official memecoin surged on the heels of an announcement that top holders of the token could have dinner with the president.
Last, the Department of Justice is seeking a 20-year prison sentence for former Celsius CEO Alex Mashinsky. In a filing submitted yesterday, the DOJ argued Mashinsk's guilty plea and facts presented before the court make clear that his actions were not the product of negligence. Rather, quote, "They were the result of deliberate, calculated decisions to lie, deceive, and steal in pursuit of personal fortune.
" Mashinsky was arrested back in 2023 in connection to the failure of his crypto platform, Celsius, which filed for bankruptcy a year earlier. He pleaded guilty this past December to committing commodities and securities fraud. His sentencing is scheduled for May 8th. All right, for our main story, Crypto World's TA McKil spoke with Chris Maurice, co-founder and CEO of the crypto payments firm Yellow Card.
The company describes itself as the largest licensed on andoff ramp for stable coins in Africa. Maurice breaks down the inspiration behind the company and how stable coin regulation in the US affects his business. Well, thank you so much for joining me on Crypto World on set today. I'm so excited to hear about Yellow Card because like I was saying off camera, I've been covering crypto for a while and what you're doing at Yellow Card really um seems like kind of the holy grail in one sense of what we can do with this technology. Um take it
from the beginning. What was the problem that you were trying to solve? Yeah. Uh, you know, I think the the big thing that uh really made this clear to us was uh one day I was at a Wells Fargo, met this Nigerian man who was sending $200 to his family and the bank charged him $90 to send 200.
And I thought, you know, that's crazy, right? So, I talked to the guy, hey, have you heard of Bitcoin? It's free. It's instant. It's fun. All this great stuff. And, you know, went home and just started thinking, what would this guy's mom do with $200 in Bitcoin? You can't buy food with that. You can't pay rent with that. And you know, to your point, everybody in this industry loves to talk about all the problems that we solve, right? I I hear all the time about how we're revolutionizing finance and changing the way, you know, that payments work. Uh
but then all you actually see are, you know, NFTTS of monkeys and and, you know, meme coins and dog and catcoin and all of that. And and so I think there was a big juxtaposition between sort of what the industry was saying and what was actually going on. And I I just became obsessed with that problem. How does a real person with a real problem actually utilize this technology? And so that's what we set out to build, right? And essentially, you know, what we developed is the the technology for stable coins to to actually be used as
an alternative to Swift and to correspondent banking starting in countries where, you know, those systems don't work today. So, how did we get from Bitcoin to now stable coins? You've built this business around stable coins. When did you realize that it had to be around stable coins versus Bitcoin? what made you realize that? Yeah, so look, I love Bitcoin.
Uh, you know, I I will be the first to say that uh when we started off, we were only doing Bitcoin, right? I we launched in June 2019. So, you know, stable coins were around, but they weren't certainly what they are today, right? Uh and it wasn't until 2021 that we actually listed our first stable coin, which was USDT.
And within about a day of listing it, about 30% of our volume moved over to stable coins. uh within a few months 99% of our volume moved over to stable coins and it just I mean completely took off from there and so I think it it became quite clear very quickly after you know offering this as an option that you know people are really just interested in the dollar right they're interested in payments they're interested in you know moving their money and better ways of being able to move money around the world rather than you know speculating on on
Bitcoin or uh any of the other assets so tell me about the product itself um who is using it and why and how do you make money? Corporates. We work with large corporates uh all over the world, right? All over emerging markets, Africa, other parts of the emerging world and then you know companies across you know US, Europe, Asia, etc.
that do business on the continent in and in emerging markets that need help with payments. We deal with large companies that have a lot of money in these countries, a lot of local currency that they're not able to to move, right? they're not able to properly interact with the international financial system for a number of reasons.
Either lack of liquidity on the US dollar or just no connectivity to Swift, right? Uh through local banking networks. And so we work with these companies on essentially three things. International payments, treasury management, and just access to dollars, right? Uh at the end of the day, you know, what I like to tell people is that pretty much all the companies that we work with, what they have in common is none of them really care about stable coins.
None of them care about blockchain. None of them care about, you know, the technology. They just have very practical, real world problems that they need solved. And this is the best way to do it. This is the best technology and the first technology that that truly solves the problem as opposed to just sort of moving the problem around on the back end.
Give me a sense of how much reach you have. So your market is Africa. How do how much reach do you have and how do you quantify that? Yeah, I mean so we work we work pred predominantly in Africa and then across various parts of the emerging world. Uh I mean we work with about 30,000 businesses of all shapes and sizes, right? So everything from you know large banks on the continent down to a guy that sells shoes on the side of the road that he's importing from China and and everybody in between.
Uh I mean you know we do a lot of work with you know PayPal and and Coinbase and other you know major institutions that want to do business in some of the fastest growing you know GDPs middle class consumer class in the world but don't want to deal with the the regulation the licensing compliance banks that don't have online banking right currencies that are you know inflating rapidly.
And so we do a lot of work with these large corporates and and you know some of the big names in in remittance and payments and banking on just making it a lot easier for them to be able to interact with these countries all from a US dollar stable coin base. Um stable coins obviously a hot topic in this country.
We are you know hopefully going to be seeing the first official crypto legislation that's focused on stable coins. uh one of the main issuers of USD backed stable coins fining to go public again. Um what do these conversations and these milestones here in the US mean globally and for your business specifically? Yeah, it's been great.
I think uh I think you know look the the saying I know it's I know it's on the continent I I think other people say it as well is you know when the US sneezes the world catches a cold right and so uh you know when you have an administration that is pushing the technology and when you have more openness from a you know legislative perspective in the US on this technology you get a lot more interest from countries and governments all over the world and so I mean you know we've talked governments just within the past couple of months that
are you know essentially asking you know hey what am I missing you know what have I not been understanding about this technology that the you know this new administration in the US is so interested in it and is pushing it and has it as such a top priority and so there's just a lot more interest around the world especially in emerging markets in you know how do we adopt this technology how do we embrace it how do we get companies building here setting up here and you know bring in the innovation bring in jobs, bring in the
money that, you know, this industry is is bringing to to the US and to other other countries around the world. Okay, that's all for Crypto World today. We'll be back again tomorrow and we'll see you then.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vLMkjZ-_IAs&t=33s
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English (auto-generated)
We were seeing some declines. We are now higher across the board. Stocks largely wavering from what we've seen play out in the first 90 minutes of trade. Investors wait for progress on trade deals. Joining me now, we've got George Cipellini, who is the Pen Mutual asset management portfolio manager. Good to have you here, George.
Uh, you say investors need to find and hold on to real tangible margins of safety. So, how do you identify those? Hey, Brian. great to see you again and and go birds. Um so I think I think if we think about this period that we're in, we are all operating through this fog of tariffs and it's pretty difficult and it can be scary at times and so I think one of the things that again we're always proponents of active management and I think it's a little bit more important in today's world because you know you want to find companies that have great
balance sheets that can survive any kind of financial disruption. You want companies that have an operating margin structure that can defend themselves in a period of rising cost, which we which it looks like we're going to have today. And then you want great management teams.
You want companies that have been through different cycles that have been through COVID and have operated through these different tough periods. I think if you the if you have those combination uh that combination of of tangible margins of safety, I think that can really help your portfolio. And so as we're waiting for some of the earnings results from some of these companies that make up components of the Magnificent 7, four of them are reporting this week.
So as we're continuing to kind of listen in for how they're assessing the environment, what do you expect to hear? What is the tenor that they could signal that might bring some calm to the broader markets? That's a great question. because they were so important over the past few years in terms of their performance and their contribution to the S&P and all the major indexes.
I think the key thing is, you know, we're still going to look at this capex number that that people have been talking about that I know I've been talking about in the past. We want to see how honestly bullish they are about whether it's data centers or whether it's growth globally. I think I think again the risk that we want to read into and we're getting a lot of commentary and I think this quarter is almost a throwaway for the actual numbers because of what's occurred since.
So again the commentary is critically important because I think the main risk that hopefully everybody understands is that through this tariff period there is the potential that in a trade war the total pie shrinks. So I want to see signs that the pie is at least maintaining its size and and hopefully not shrinking.
And so with that in mind, you actually mentioned the kind of aggregate uh view and and perspective of earnings growth this season. According to some facts set data for Q1 2025, the blended year-over-year earnings growth rate for the S&P 500 is 10.1%. Now, if 10.1% is the actual growth rate for the quarter marks the second straight quarter of double-digit earnings growth reported by the index, but as you say, it's not about what companies did in the most recent or the past, but how they're signaling what the outlook looks like
for the future here. And so, how from your assessment are companies trying to position their businesses and their financial performance amid some of that uncertainty? really tough because again we're talking about a situation from a tariff standpoint that none of us have dealt with in our in our in our lives and many managers haven't dealt with in in a very very long period of time at least from a US standpoint and so I think what again we're we're going through all the commentary now now it's really tough when you know you have GM or UPS or
Sketchers just say hey look guys we can't give you guidance we just can't do it it's too difficult so I think what we're trying to do quite frankly there's there's a couple ways to approach as investors. Number one, you could focus on businesses that just won't be as exposed. Uh there's a domestic, for example, a domestic uh HVAC, commercial HVAC company that we own there.
They they make everything in the US and they sell in the US. That's pretty easy. They're not going to be exposed as much to the tariffs. They might actually benefit because their competitors will be. Or, you know, a Norwegian ADR company that we own that that has a great dividend yield that it's a web browsing company.
again, they're not going to be exposed to these tariffs. So, I think that's the one track. You can absolutely try your best from a bottom-up basis to avoid the tariff impact. The other way is to maybe be a little bit contrarian and maybe take the optimistic view that, hey, look, this tariff thing isn't going to be forever or the tariff deals may work out pretty positively.
And again, there you have to take a contrarian stance and buy what's a little bit uglier today in hopes that things will get better and the news headlines will be better moving forward. George Silone, great to have you here with us today.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ImsAy9qEgcY
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
Well, Convolt reporting earnings today beating on the top and bottom lines. And here to break down the report is Convolt CEO Sanjay Merchandonnani. Sanjay, it is good to see you. So, you report results. Your stock finished up nearly 2% in today's trade. Of course, your stock is also up about 70% over the past 12 months.
Sanjay, but walk us through the report, the results, what you're seeing in the business. Good to see you, Josh. Thanks for having me back. Um it was a good quarter Q4 for us and we beat across uh all all key metrics. Um you've got some of them up on screen and it topped off um a really good year for us. You know we what we do what we do at Convault is help customers be more resilient be you know with their data with their applications with their business and um there are different vectors that we protect them against and make them resilient with cyber being one
of them. And we're seeing good secular sort of tailwinds in the in the in the cyber resilience space. Um you know what used to be sort of an IT hallway conversation has moved into the seauite and we're talking to a lot of CEOs and and executives and boards about what it means to be resilient.
Our technology uh with our com cloud platform is leading in the space. Uh we make it really straightforward and and and give customers a good you know good platform to work with. Uh combine that with um something that we hold ourselves um accountable for which is great execution between our teams and our and our ecosystem.
Uh I think that sums up um the results that we're seeing. Sanjre, you know, in this in this environment right now, it's, you know, it's uneasy. It's there's uncertainty. There are, you know, CEOs and CFOs, Sanjay, who just say, "Listen, I'm going to not be able to give you guidance. I can't give you a forecast right now." You didn't do that.
You gave guidance. You gave a forecast. What gave you the confidence to do that? Well, you know, we what we you know, fundamentally what we what we do for customers really matters. I mean, there's there's no slowdown in in in cyber attacks in in the need for customers to be to be protected. It doesn't matter if you're a large enterprise or a small school.
I mean, this is this is this is pervasive. So, you know, we're we're staying close to our customers. We're staying close to our partners, understanding the pipeline, understanding the fact that this is important to them, what we provide. And so, you know, having validated the best we can given the circumstances, we felt that um what we put out was a was a was a was a fair guide.
So, given the backdrop that we find ourselves in with that uncertainty, Sanjay, I'm just curious, did you see signs of that in in the quarter, you know, in in your customers? Were they any more hesitant, Sanjay, than they may have been 6 months ago or 12 months ago? Honestly, Josh, no. But again, you know, we know what we know today.
We we had a great Q4. We brought in um we sort of broke our own internal records of of deal sizes whether they be small, medium or large what we consider large business. We landed new customers both our SAS platform and our and our on-remise capabilities grew. So we didn't see we didn't see any change. We're, you know, we're obviously like you, we're we're looking, we're talking to customers, we're trying to stay close to the pipeline, make sure it's good.
And at this point, um, you know, we feel, we feel like customers understand what they're they're getting into with with with the need for resilience and um, and hopefully it stays good. So, so no signs, you know, how this uncertainty has impacted your customers. I'm curious though, Sanjay, has it impacted how you want to run the company? Has it impacted investing, spending, headcount decisions? we actually, you know, look at the opportunity in front of us and it's a good time for us.
So we, you know, we we're not we're not changing course. Um we're also not directly affected by any conversations about about tariffs, for example, because we're a software company or SAS and and so we're, you know, we built a plan. We think that the demand is there. We think that we're executing well and our platform delivers what it's supposed to.
So we're actually you know we've got a business plan that we haven't really modified substantially one way or the other um in the in the past say 2 3 months and Sanjay you know we have any number of of smart economists who come on the show and some of them have said Sanjay they they do see the risks of of a recession in the US rising if the US economy did suffer a contraction that would mean what for convolt I mean it I'm going to I'm going to go on the on the single fundamental assumption that what we do is really
important to customers being down with a cyber attack, being, you know, not being able to conduct business probably costs more than than getting involved with us and get and getting our technology in in a timely way. Um, your guess is as good as mine. I am not an economist. Um, and I would just say to you that we stay close to our customers and we stay close to um our partners that that are working together with us and um and hopefully um hopefully we don't see that.
Finally, Sanjay, I know you know you bought a few companies since becoming CEO of Convolt. Are you on the hunt for more? You know, we we have a very good um R&D engine of our own. As a as a company, we've been we've been uh in business for 28 years and and have built most of our technology, but we have we have acquired a few few companies and um in the last year, we bought a company that really revolutionizes how you protect cloudnative applications and another one that does massive scale um data resets, data, you know, data recovery on on
Amazon uh AWS S3 uh capabilities. These have enhanced our our ability to deliver value to our customers and resilience. It's also increase our total addressable market in a very natural way. So anything we look at would be uh something that enhances our platform naturally and and very quickly can be a creative to our to our customers and and us. Sanjay, great to see you.
Great to have you on the show. Thank you for joining us, sir.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X6f8RIn92OE&pp=0gcJCYQJAYcqIYzv
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English (auto-generated)
Has the selling gone far enough? Now might be a really good time to think about getting in. Markets may be down, but the door is wide open for some once-ina-lifetime buy opportunities on some of the strongest names out there. They have a portfolio of brands that consumers tend to be very brand loyal towards.
Market Beats Chris Marott shares three stocks on his list of generational buy opportunities. There's a really good compelling story for why you can hide out in this stock right now. collect a nice dividend while you wait for the stock to turn around. The kind of set it and forget it powerhouse companies that usually only offer slow and steady growth, but now offer some real growth for new investors.
They believe that there's almost 30% upside to the stock right now. A rare opportunity with some strong companies. Could these be the stocks that define your future? Let's dive in. Chris, so great to have you back on the show again today talking about this once in a generation buying opportunity for investors. That's a pretty big claim.
So, I want you to go through kind of how you came up with this list of three stocks. I know that some investors are really tired of hearing, you know, once in a generation opportunities, buying the dip, all that stuff. But I use some very specific criteria using the market bait beat stock screener to find stocks that are really presenting great buying opportunities that you might even say are once in a generation opportunities.
And the specific criteria were all the stocks we're going to be talking about on this video, they have forward pees that are at least 50% of the S&P 500 average. So, we're probably talking about uh forward PE ratios of no higher than 14 or maybe 15 times earnings at best. Uh they all have attractive dividend yields of at least 2% and they they were all trading near 52- week lows.
I think in all these cases, we're looking at um RSIs that are probably below 40. So, that's suggesting that the stock is in that oversold range. Interesting. So that's why uh with those parameters in mind, this list has some things in common, but they are kind of unique stocks. What they have in common is the opportunity, right? So let's dive into the list.
Starting with the first stock that's a great kind of generational buying opportunity, right? So the stock here is Chevron. Ticker symbol is CVX. Um many investors are familiar with this. We're talking about a big integrated oil company in the likes of Exxon and and Accidental. Chevron has been doing not much of anything over the past couple of years from a stock price growth perspective.
In fact, a lot of investors would say it's been dead money. But the one thing about Chevron is Chevron is one of the best companies in this sector in terms of providing shareholder value. It's got a a balance sheet that people would say is a fortress balance sheet that generates a lot of cash, especially free cash flow.
Um, what's been holding the stock back recently has been its prolonged merger with Hess, which was supposed to go through last year, but now won't be going through till probably the end of this year. However, it still appears that that merger is going to go through. So, I think that right now Chevron may not be doing much from a stock price growth perspective, but I think that's going to change by the end of the year.
I think another thing about this company is it's been around for a very long time historically. Has this continued to be a strong performer even though it's not seen the kind of uh tremendous growth. Is it always a strong performer kind of whatever is going on in the economy? Yeah, and again I think that that depends on how you define performance.
I mean obviously with the price of oil being suppressed a little bit that's going to weigh on these oil stocks. But something that investors need to realize is this is where quality matters. Chevron's a company, again I mentioned the Fortress balance sheet. This company's set up to do well even if oil were to linger and meander around in the $50 range.
They're going to be just fine. And when you're getting a a 5% dividend yield on this on the stock, the there's a really good compelling story for why you can hide out in this stock right now, collect a nice dividend while you wait for the stock to turn around and just, you know, and just basically it's a set it and forget it stock.
Let's look at some of the the charts and what analysts are saying for Chevron right now. Where do analysts expect it to go if it's already kind of trading toward that 52- week low right now? Analysts believe that it's going to be uh has about an 18% upside right now. That's the consensus. When you look at the analyst forecast on Market Beat, they're looking at a price of $168 or $165, excuse me.
And it's trading right now at just under $140. So that's a nice 18% potential gain. And that go again that goes along with that dividend that like I said it's got a dividend yield right now this morning as we tape it's around 4.8%. But another key with that dividend is your annual payout per share is $6.84.
So that's a that's a very nice payout for investors. the stock comes is the stock does a generous stock buyback program and like I said the merger with Hess is still likely to be completed by the end of this year and that's probably going to be the one reason why investors can count on that catalyst for stock price growth even if oil prices don't necessarily get back up into that $70 range or even $80 range.
I know you've been making a case for this stock this whole time, but I want to end each of these stock picks. Sure. With why this is a generational opportunity. How could this impact your portfolio uh years and decades down the road? Like I said, it's basically been kind of dead money for the last couple years.
So, if you look at the stock chart, um it hasn't done it hasn't done a whole lot over the last three years. So, right now you're getting you're you're getting a chance to buy the stock at a very attractive price and accumulate shares before the price of oil goes up and the stock probably gets a little bit more expensive.
And you're accumulating these shares now and that allows you to compound the growth you get from those dividends over time. That's why I really like Chevron right now. All right, let's move on to your second stock pick in your list of generational buying opportunities right now. Sure. The next stock that I'm looking at is UPS, United Parcel Service, uh, ticker symbol again is UPS.
Now, transportation stocks are under pressure right now. There's a lot of reasons for that. Low and middle income consumers are showing signs of cutting back on their spending activity. The stocks down at 5-year lows. There's a lot of concern that UPS is going to be losing business from their largest customer, which is Amazon.
So, there's a lot of reasons to say you'd want to stay away from this stock, but that doesn't seem to be what analysts are saying. And that's why I'm thinking there's reason to believe that with the stock down over 33% for the year, I think it's down over 27% just in 2025, the bottom may be in here for UPS. And this may be a time where investors want to jump in and say, "Hey, this is again a time where we can accumulate shares at a nice value.
" So, it's a good value right now. And it also offers a pretty good dividend for investors, right? Uh, currently the stock has a dividend yield of over 6.7% and a payout, again, an annual payout per share of $6.56. So, you're getting a stock that's trading near its 52- week lows. It's trading for under $100 a share. And you've got a really nice chance to accumulate shares right now and still collect a dividend.
Again, that's a really important key here. You're being paid to wait on the stock before it goes back up. And why might we expect it to go back up? Well, we're expecting that you're going to have a resolution to some of these tariff issues. That should build strong momentum for the economy in the second half of the year.
And that means you're going to probably start seeing an increase in package deliveries, not only for consumers, but for businesses, which bodess well for something like UPS. I know you mentioned earlier that analysts are still expecting a strong year for this company. Let's look at what analysts are saying and also uh what the chart history shows for UPS.
I feel like this has also been a company that's been around for a long time and has had strong performance from investors for quite a while. Right. So again, analysts are saying that they're giving UPS a consensus price target of $12641. And right now it has a price of $9753. So there's they believe that there's almost 30% upside to the stock right now.
And if you see it get up to $127, that's going to take it right up to about where it was in January of this year before it started to sell off. So analysts are basically saying all of the dip in the stock this year, it's going to make up for that and then some, which is which is something that should appeal to a lot of investors who are looking for stocks that they can buy at a value right now.
And again, that same final question of just why is UPS specifically a good generational buy? Despite any short-term problems it's going through, the company's not in any danger of going bankrupt. It's not a company that's not going to be around. It's going through a very cyclical turn in the economy that's affecting its business.
Just like in 2020 and 2021 the stock did very well because of a a tailwind on their business. Right now that stock's going through a headwind on the business. Those cycles tend to change. You see that um you've seen that in the company's stock price over the years. And right now the bigger the gain was in 2021, the bigger the drop off in 2023 and 2024.
But I think with the stock now trading right around a five-year low, I think this is a time for investors to really say, "Hey, has the selling gone far enough? Now might be a really good time to think about getting in." Yeah, it's definitely one of those stocks you want to look at if you are growthminded because like you said, about a 30% upside on a a really solid company is a great return on your investment.
If you are looking for more growth opportunities as an investor, check out this free report on marketbeat.com right now. It's seven blockbuster stocks for growth investors who are looking to find a boost in their portfolio. You can scan the QR code or click the link in the description of this video to get that free report on marketbeat.com right now.
And here are a few other stock ideas that could help you grow your portfolio, too. All right, Chris, let's get to your final stock pick on this list of three generational buying opportunities. Last one on my list is probably the most controversial of the three and that's Campbell Soup Company or really right now known as the Campbell Company.
I'm sorry they they changed their name here. So, this is the company that's got the most exposure to tariffs of the three companies that we've talked about. Some people may say UPS has exposure to tariffs, but their their exposure is more um more in a tangential way because of they might lose some business if the supply and demand goes down.
But but Campbell is affected because some of their products are actually manufactured in China. They do import some of their frozen vegetables from other countries. So they may be affected by the tariffs in the short term. Some investors are also concerned about, well, if there's a if the food prices keep going up and there's kind of an anemic growth pattern for these companies that rely on very tight margins, maybe that's not really great for the Campbell company.
Here again, I'll say if we go back to the criteria that I started with, they're trading at an attractive forward PE level. They've got a they've got a nice dividend and uh they're trading near their their the relative strength indicator suggests the stock is probably a little bit on the oversold side. That's why I kind of like Campbell Soup here or Campbell's company here.
They um they have a portfolio of brands that consumers tend to be very brand loyal towards and I think that they'll be able to weather this this uh tariff situation probably be able to pass along price increases to consumers if they haven't already had those price increases in place. And I think that's going to be they're going to be just companies that they fall in that consumer staples category.
These are products that consumers are going to be looking for when they're looking to save money and instead of buying some other products. Yeah, definitely a consumer staple company for sure and one like like the others. It's been around for such a long time. There's a lot of that brand loyalty with this company. I want to pull up the chart here and look at just how much of a discount this company is trading at right now.
Probably like you said, largely due to uh fears around tariffs and how it might impact this business. So, how much of a discount can you get Campbell for right now? You know, similar to what we just looked at with UPS, you're looking at a stock that's trading at its five-year lows. And you'd kind of have to start thinking, does it re is it really a stock that you're looking at that should be trading lower than it was in 2019.
Not so sure about that. Right now, it's down 13% year-to date, 19% over the last 12 months. Analysts though are suggesting that there could be as much as a 23% upside on the stock. Again, that's a pretty big upside for such a wellestablished company that also has some pretty good returns for investors, too, right? I mean, you're you're talking about a company that has a 4.
3% dividend yield. It's not as the price of the stock is not as high as UPS and Chevron. So you're getting a dividend payout per year of $1.56, but you're only paying right now about $35 for the shares. So again, when we're looking at generational buying opportunities, you're looking to accumulate stock while it's trading at historic lows as Campbell is.
It's trading at five-year lows. It's a good time to accumulate the stock, cash in on that dividend, and then look for the stock price growth to rally as the economic conditions turn around. Well, you made a good case for why this is a generational buying opportunity, too. Thank you, Chris, for this list. We'd love to hear what you think as viewers.
Are you interested in some of these more long-term companies that have been around at those 52- week lows as great opportunities, or are you looking in other directions for a once-ina-lifetime buy the dip opportunity right now in this market? We'd love to hear where you're turning and what you think of this list. Let us know in the comments.
Thanks again for watching everyone, and as always, happy investing.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JeAYLVj18UQ&t=17s
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English - CC1
English (auto-generated)
trade 360. Time now for our 360 round. We're taking a look at General Motors off the back of its latest earnings. And of course we have to have the conversation about tariffs as it relates to the auto industry. For that I want to bring in our panel. We've got Karl Brauer executive Analyst, Iseecars.com, and Garrett Nelson senior equity analyst and VP at Cfra research.
Thank you both for joining us today. Carl, I want to start out with you in terms of some of your takeaways from the numbers today. They beat on the top and bottom line. We expect that going forward. You said the Q1 numbers are going to look good for GM because they're based on pre tariff costs and pull forward effects on tariffs had on sales.
Is that essentially still your view Carl. Yeah I believe that's exactly what happened. They were able to maximize the first quarter pretty well. I know they had some problems down in Mexico with one of their plants, but generally speaking they sold a lot of vehicles and they didn't have a lot of unexpected or unknown cost incursions that both of which they're looking at going forward with much less certainty. Both sales and costs.
And then, Garrett, I want to ask you what stood out. Adjusted EPs two. 78 revenue. Top $44 billion. Again, this is the trailing quarter. You've got a hold rating on GM. What were your takeaways first from these results Garrett. Sure. Takeaway was it was another solid quarter for GM. As Carl mentioned it was Pre-tariff though the you know big tariffs kicked in April 2nd.
GM has significant excess production in both Mexico and Canada. So you know they've suspended their guidance for now. And I think it remains to be seen whether they put out revised guidance on Thursday when their call is now. They postpone the conference call by two days. I think given the pending news regarding possible remediation in the tariffs here that might be in the works, there could be an announcement soon.
But I think, you know, another solid quarter of execution, strong sales there. They're actually picking up pretty significant market share in the US, which they've been doing over the last few years. So all in all, I think it was a better than expected release. But I think everyone is waiting to see what the revised 2025 earnings guidance is going to look like.
If there is any given. You make a great point about that, Garrett. So, Carl, look to Garrett's point. The CFO said, quote, we believe the future impacts of tariffs could be significant. So we are reassessing our guidance and look forward to sharing more when we have greater clarity. We may get some clarity soon, because the Trump administration has had some talks about softening the impact of these auto tariffs.
Carl, I'm curious to know what your overall outlook is for the auto industry. You know, it's so hard to predict right now for all the reasons that we've been talking about, we really need to kind of finalize what the long term set tariffs are going to be. And until that happens, it's almost impossible to have any kind of confident outlook for how each company is going to do, how each product's going to do and what 2025 and beyond is going to look like.
And I think Trump knows this. I think the administration knows this. So there's an effort to get there and to finalize these things. He's he's business savvy enough to know that you can't have complete disruption and unknowns at this level and operate effectively as any kind of company. And, you know, car companies, they have such a long time horizon, product planning and supplier bases and distribution.
Everything is based on long term planning, and I don't know how any of them can do any of that right now. Speaking of the Trump administration, President Trump set to be in Michigan today. Garrett, what are you are you looking to hear anything as it relates to tariffs or in particular, the plans to shore up manufacturing and bring back more of the production to the US? Yeah, I mean, I think it's anyone's guess.
I'd be a little surprised if he made a big announcement at this rally, but it clearly there are there are discussions in the works and the administration is working on something to soften the impact of the tariffs. And I think that's good news for GM. The shares have been hit very hard ever since all this tariff talk started a few months ago.
And so I think as investors gain a little more comfort as as far as the 2025 earnings, what those look like for GM, I think you have a strong possibility of a relief rally here. Our best guess is that their adjusted EPs guidance, the new guidance will be somewhere in the range of 9 to $10. The guidance they just suspended for this year was 11 to $12.
And of course they earned $10.60 last year. So it'd be a, you know, pretty modest decline from from what they earned last year. But their CFO this morning said that they continue to believe they can offset 30 to 50% of the impact of the North American tariffs. So I don't think it's actually going to be as bad as some investors are fearing.
We've seen this with a lot of other stocks and companies where there have been significant tariff fears. And when those get when investors get a little more comfort surrounding the numbers oftentimes. Okay. Well, you make a great point. Remains to be seen what the new levels will be, especially as it relates to auto tariffs.
But so far it's been a different year in terms of stock performance year to date. Ford versus GM. Last year it was GM was the Outperformer. This year Ford is. We'll have to leave our conversation there today. Thank you so much. We've got Karl Brauer executive analyst, I
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-XIp8zr_L8U
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
[Applause] For more news and movers, Diane King Hall, host of Morning Movers, is with us now. And we've had breaking news pertaining to the White House and Amazon and a tariff cost report. Yeah, this is true. Uh White House saying that uh Amazon's decision to show the cost including the price of tariffs.
They consider it a hostile and political act. So you are seeing shares of Amazon under some pressure right now. Uh we had originally heard from Punch Bowl news that Amazon would start displaying the cost of an item as it relates to tariffs. That follows moves that we've seen recently from Shien uh raising its prices and T-Mu although Teimu you don't find out that until you get towards the actual uh close to the end process of purchasing an item.
So it matches those moves that we've seen there. And keep in mind, shares of Amazon have been under pressure this year and uh f fell under more pressure following uh the news of the tariffs at the beginning of this month. Uh year to date before today down about 15% for the year. Not the worst performer in the MAG 7 uh but certainly has been a difficult landscape for Amazon this year.
And part of the concern is the impact of tariffs to the company especially as it relates to obviously the e-commerce side of its business. a chunk of its seller um are from they're based in China. Uh US sellers do make up a significant portion of sellers in the US, but many of those goods are sourced from China. So there is risk when you think about those heavy 145% tariffs from the US.
It'll be interesting to see. I mean I I would be interested to see what the tariff cost is. I mean I there's no way to know if it's exactly correct because these tariffs are not necessarily solidified and they are ever changing and being negotiated right now. So I'm not sure that the numbers they're printing are exactly correct.
China would be because we know there's no pause there. I mean you know I mean essentially as we know where we are between the US and China that is something that is you know where we're it sounds like there are some talks but at least we're seeing the impact for instance with uh team move. So it sounds like Amazon is going to follow the same playbook.
I did just try to you know add a couple things to my cart to see if you see the impact yet. I didn't see the impact yet. So maybe that's coming. Um, but hopefully we get to some kind of solution so we don't have to deal with that. I mean, we're still as of yesterday at 145%. Uh, for China and you know, I guess you could pick something else from somewhere else.
I mean, if you want a cup, it doesn't have to come from China. You could get your Vietnam from somewhere else and maybe pay a lower price. Um, it'll be interesting. But I see where um Caroline Levit, press secretary, by the media reports, has reportedly said that this is a hostile and political act. Amazon is the lagard in the um Dow Jones Industrial Average down 1.5% right now. So there's that.
And then we have the news that we've been following. Novo Nordisk and HIMS on the news. Yeah. leading to a huge rally for Hems and Hers uh off of this news that Noval Nord is partnering with Hems and Hers along with a couple other providers Row and Life MD to offer WGO to these teleaalth platforms partnering with them to uh allow for the supply to continue there.
You're seeing him and her sore more than 20% right now. In the pre-market it had surged more than 30%. uh Noval Nordis uh ticking a little bit higher but a re really the big winner here is him and hers uh it allows for the compounding pharmacies to still have these offerings because you'll remember they were offering compounded versions of the wagi zal major of the world when there was short supply now recently the FDA has taken them off of being in short supply and that had caused a heavy hit for instance to him and hers when that happened. uh but now this uh gives them
a path forward with regard to these offerings and people like these teleaalth options. So Novo Nordis has been a big winner in this space. Uh under this uh direct to consumer the pricing would be $499 per month uh for this is if people are paying their self-paying uh customers. So that's a significant uh significantly less than what the normal price is for WGO which is more than a,000 more than $1,300 uh for you know each of the uh say a one month supply of the item.
Uh they do Hampton Hers does also have this bundled packaging and that would be $599 a month and that's access to you know uh different membership offerings that come through that. So what it does again is gives hims and hers now a path forward when it comes to the supplies because you'll recall that the stock took a heavy hit when the compounders were not going to be able to offer this now.
Yeah, that's right. So big move there 20 almost 28% for him today. The Amazon news keeps coming out. Caroline Levit reportedly saying like why didn't Amazon do this when the Biden administration hiked inflation to the highest levels in 40 years and show those costs and the change in costs.
But that's going to be a battle between the White House and Amazon and we'll hear from Amazon on Thursday because we'll get the earnings. So it'll be interesting to see if they make any comments pertaining to this. SoFi also on your radar, Diane. Yeah, look uh SoFi doing better than expected on a variety of metrics, Nicole. They beat on both the top and bottom line adjusted. EPS was 6 cents a share.
Street was looking for 4 cents for SoFi. On revenue, they earned more than 770 million 770.72 million to be precise. So that was better than expected. They saw uh they had strength just across segments whether we're talking about total loan originations uh that reached 7.2 billion. Home loan originations increased 54%. Feebased revenue grew 67%.
It was a record for that segment, 315 million uh dollars. We know that a part of SoFi's bread and butter had been student loan refinancing. They have had growth in that area. You saw significant growth there, more than 50% as well there. They've increased their outlook off the back of this. So just firing on all cylinders for SoFi.
Their guidance for 2025 earnings now to come in between 27 and 28 cents a share. That's above their prior guidance which was 25 to 27 cents. For Q2 they're expecting uh GAP EPS to be between 5 and 6 cents. Uh adjusted revenue, they're expecting that to come in between 785 million to 85 million. So really firing on all cylinders for SoFi.
one of the few names reporting guidance and boosting that number. That's unusual in this environ. We're hearing more about layoffs and uncertainty and withdrawn guidance. Absolutely. It's such a different playbook than so far what we're hearing this cycle and all of the tariff uncertainty and the headwinds there are causing so many companies to either uh pull guidance to say we can't give you guidance uh for the full year or you know offer different caveats such as say UPS uh with regard to guidance or offer two different scenarios uh such as
United Airlines did but to beat and race we haven't seen that really I mean that's not the pattern this cycle. And last but not least, we look at Brinker. Um, Chili is under that umbrella. There was a lot of excitement about Chili and all their fancy uh margaritas that were really geared towards a holiday or young folks or cheap six bucks.
Uh, but it wasn't enough. No, it wasn't enough to please investors. And look, they did actually beat expectations uh on the quarter uh on the trailing quarter and their guidance actually uh looked pretty good overall. Uh now revenue was a little bit weak in terms of guidance. Uh so what their project or excuse me their trailing quarter they earned 266 a share.
That was better than expected. Revenue came in at 1.43 billion. Also better than expected. They had strong comps. Chili's uh you had overall increase and 31% uh increase in same store sales for Chili's. You saw more than 20% increase in traffic there. So you saw growth there. U Majanos, you saw a slight increase there. Nowhere near the same level as Chili's just up 4/10en of a percent.
Chili's is really obviously the standout here in terms of their projection. They're guiding for uh EPS of between 850 to 875 for fiscal year 2025. Consensus is 847. Uh they're guiding for revenue for 2025 between 5.33 to 5.35 billion. Consensus is around five and a quarter. So kind of in the midpoint. I'll add in Sherwin Williams which gave guidance maintain the guidance but a great performance today up 4.
3% after its quarterly numbers. They did say some choppy demand. Thank you Diane King Hall covering a lot of the names there. I added Sherwin Williams folks because that is the leader in the Dow Jones Industrial Average along with Honeywell. Both of those names are each up more than 4% helping to give the Dow a boost of 134 points today while the S&P 500 is lower.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LHOJj7UFbYg&t=8s
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
Welcome to the rap. I'm Caroline Woods here to take you through today's trading action. Hopes of a trade deal sent stocks higher on Tuesday. The Dow led the day with a threequarter of a percent rally. The Nasdaq, S&P, and Russell all tacked on at least half a percent. Every sector except energy gained on the session.
Financials and materials saw a near 1% rally. Consumer staples added 3/4 of 1%. Tariffs for car parts are set to go into effect on Friday, but President Trump will reportedly sign three executive orders Tuesday evening that could lessen the blow to US automakers. Those orders are expected to include a reimbursement for the 25% tariff on auto parts up to 3.
75% of the value of domestically produced cars. Commentary from Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik revealed that US cars with 85% of US-made parts will see no tariffs. Among companies paying close attention to these developments, General Motors, which has delayed its conference call to Thursday and pulled guidance to assess the tariff impact.
Shares were down 4% at today's lows before rebounding. Elsewhere in tariff headlines, Amazon denied a report that the company considered showing import charges on its final checkout page. The Mag 7 company thought about the move for its Hall website, but said the idea was never approved and is not going to happen for Hall or Amazon.
Initial headlines from a Punch Bowl news report caught attention from the White House, which said the move would be a hostile and political act. Spotify bounced back significantly off its lows after earnings underwhelmed investors. The streaming service saw a 12% uptick in premium subscribers and 10% increase in monthly active users.
both about in line with Wall Street's expectations. However, Spotify also posted a bottomline miss. Spotify said the short term may bring some noise, but that it remains confident in its long-term outlook. Spotify stock is still up 100% over the last year. Here's what investors need to look out for tomorrow.
Meta Platforms and Microsoft earnings will take center stage after the closing bell. We'll also get reports from Qualcomm, Humanana, Caterpillar, eBay, and Etsy. On the economic calendar, we'll get the Fed's preferred inflation gauge, a read on GDP, and pending home sales data. That'll do it for the rap. I'm Caroline Woods. Remember to tune in 247 to schwabnetwork.com.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MogjX1CfnSo&t=278s
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English (auto-generated)
Do you personally expect a recession? I am going to defer to my economist at this point, but I think probably that's a likely outcome. Normally I don't pay that much attention to anecdotes, but you heard them. They're real. I hear it from just everybody now. Going to cut back a little bit.
I'm going to wait, see what happens. That is kind of recessionary talk. So, you know, we've been in this kind of very soft landing for a long time. Consumers have money. They were spending money. Corporate is making profits. I do remind people part of that was because of our extraordinary fiscal spending.
You know, we borrowed and spent $11 trillion since co and that obviously drives a lot of growth. It drives corporate profits. So, I think what you see now is corporations making announcement after announcement about don't expect my guidance to be true. I'm going to hold back here a little bit. These are long-term decisions they have to make.
They may want to see the tax bill, which you know, hopefully they can get done in July. So, yeah, I think you're going to see a slowdown. I think the economists are probably right to say that you should expect that. And the other thing which we haven't had any slowdown or real recession and co was so short I almost don't include it in so long that if you have rates going up a little bit and inflation is sticky and credit spreads gapping out which they're going to I think you'll see more credit problems than people have seen in a long time. I always remind people markets
aren't always right but sometimes they are right and I think this time they are right because they're just pricing in uncertainty at the macro level and uncertainty at the micro level the actual company level and then how it affects consumer sentiment. It's hard to tell. You know, consumers still have jobs.
Wages are going up the low end, which I think is a good thing. But if companies start cutting back, yeah, the consumer sentiment changes and business sentiment changes. I think you've already seen business sentiment change a little bit. Hopefully, you know, no one's wishing for that, but you know, hopefully if there is one, it'll be short.
But I do think fixing these tariff issues and traders would be a good thing to do. That will get one major uncertainty behind us. We have the strongest economy in the world. It would be good not to add to the uncertainty out there. Trade is really complicated. I mean, these trade agreements are thousands of pages long. It is product by product and area by area, non-trade barriers, subsidies.
You know, there's tons of food. If you spend time in just food alone, you'd be shocked how many different food agreements there are and disagreements and protection of local farmers, which almost every country does. So, the sooner the better. They should get at it. You know, that just slows everything down. And so, that's the bad part of these volatile markets.
It's not that it's bad for us. It's bad for small businesses, middlesiz companies, you know, large companies can usually get the funding they need. Well, it's nothing like 08 in clarity and nothing. And the 2000.com thing was very brief. I mean, lasted like 9 months or something like that. So, it doesn't compare to that.
The world was massively overleveraged. There was a mortgage problem. You're going to have, you know, half a trillion or maybe a trillion dollars of actual real problems. The banking system is not that leveraged today. But it's serious. And it was serious before the last election. We have a huge complex geopolitical situation, huge fiscal deficits, not just here, but around the world, sticky inflation, which I personally think will not go away so quick.
And then you have, you know, what's going to happen to tariffs, what's going to happen to trade, what's going to happen. So, you know, tariffs and trade are just part of that mix. They don't completely stand alone. I think it is perfectly reasonable for someone to say that trade was unfair. There were unfair trade things.
And remember, it's not just tariffs. It's tariffs. I think they have the VAT wrong, how they understand it, and I think they should really get a better understanding to make it easy to negotiate, but there all these non-tariff barriers around food and energy and then subsidies, which you know, China's famous for. So, it's totally reasonable to say we want to make trade better.
But I also want to point out to the Americans, we have the best economy in the world. Our GDP per person is $85,000. China's is $15,000. So you got to put a little bit into context but and then of course when they put the tariffs in there was way beyond what people expected that will cause a little inflation slow down growth but I hope what they really do is let Scott Bessant's professional negotiate I know Japan's here I gather Korea Vietnam have called and then eventually Europe get those things done quickly if you want to calm down the markets show progress in
those things and let Scott take the time trade deals are very large and very complex they can't be done overnight but you really have to teams working them to get them right. I'm taking a calm view, but I think it could get worse if we don't make some progress here. And of course, you know, trade wars, you saw China raise the race today, you know, and people are going to get angry and they're going to have responses and every country's got choices.
So, there are short-term choices, there long-term choices. And I also want to point out if you kind of look forward in the next, you know, 60 days, every company's going to be telling you guys, you know, what it means to them. You know, I think today I saw Delta remove their guidance and things like that will affect stock prices. Again, it's not over yet.
And then you've seen tremendous moves in swap prices, asset prices, treasury prices. There's a 10-year Treasury auction today and how they go. So, let them settle down, take a deep breath, negotiate some trade deals. That's the best thing they can do. You have a lot of deleveraging hedge funds and players out there, which he obviously is quite experienced at things like that.
And that is the initial effect. There will be other effects and we still are the reserve currency which will be true for a long time. But a very important point, China and Russia have made it clear they want to kind of dismantle the postworld war II system. And I think the goal of all this trade stuff should be to make Europe and our trading partners Japan, Korea, Philippines stronger, not weaker.
Bring them closer as we build up our military and any trade that protects military that we should definitely do. We made a lot of mistakes about as you know pharmaceuticals you know shipping pharmaceutical green penicellin we can't rely on any potential adversary for things we need for our military and so you know there I'm quite sympathetic that we should do that's absolutely paramount we need to do that for rare earths pharmaceutical devices semiconductor chips we should do it right I mean we shouldn't do it in a way
that wastes a lot of money and lets corporations feed it that great text trough or something like that and it could be done but it will take that we need to start right away. Even some of these other supply chains, you know, a lot of companies are too reliant on one country. It'll take them to move. But I think you got to separate, you know, making sneakers from making guns.
One is like really important, one is, you know, it's not as big a deal. So, uh, but the point about national security is economic security, national security are almost directly related in the long run. You know, hopefully when these wars get resolved and I hope in the interest of Ukraine where they have sovereignty was over and the interest of Israel and not being constantly attacked by terrorists on three sides, you need to keep the economic alliance together.
I think it would be in Russia's and North Korea's, Iran's and China's interest to fragment the Western world. And I think that would be the biggest long-term mistake. And I'm talking about over 30 or 40 years. I don't want to read the book about how the West was lost. There's a section in my chairman's letter about China.
You know, I think China in reality has done a lot of good things for its own nation. I don't agree with autocratic dictatorships, etc. But they lifted a nation that had a GDP per person of $400 to $15,000. That compares to $85,000 of America. There are legitimate complaints that people have around China, like if you look at their neighborhood, very complex neighborhood, but they are scaring Japan, Korea, Indonesia, Vietnam, India, etc.
And so, you know, they should look at themselves and look at where the legitimate complaints about trade. You know, a lot of nations around the world think that they've been dumping excess capacity on their nations. And they should look at all of that. And what I said in my letter is that America shouldn't be afraid. America has a wonderfully strong hand with all of our freedoms and prosperous nation, etc.
I think we should work with our allies, which is exactly what China doesn't want. But I think China and America should engage. And you know, they've started to, but right now they're not talking very much. So, uh, I think the first thing you do when you sit down with anyone is I think the first thing you do when you sit down is say, "How's your family? What are your objectives?" You know, we all have common interests and I don't want to get this tit fortat type of thing.
I think adults should talk to each other and listen to each other and acknowledge when the other person is right or at least has a good point. I don't think we have any engagement right now. And so, but that can start tomorrow. Doesn't have to wait a year. It can start tomorrow. You start with a phone call. Either president can assign it to someone to call them up and go see them.
We've done that, you know, with Iran, which I think is good. I think from the United States standpoint, my objective would be anything that relates to national security. Obviously, America should rely on itself or close allies for that. You know, we didn't and that's kind of a shame and I'm surprised. Anything that's about really unfair trade, you know, that should be dealt with. That's true with a lot of nations.
There's a lot of unfair trade all over the place. This has been on for a hundred different years, but a lot of things don't matter as much. You know, where you get your textiles made, your footwear, your furniture. So, I think we should be cleareyed about what we're trying to accomplish. And I also think we should do it with allies.
You know, I think if the western world, I would want to negotiate eventually with Europe, with the UK, with Japan, Korea, Australia, Philippines, and have a very strong economic relationship and also then face off with China and say we, you know, we want to trade with you, but here are the terms of trade that we all think are fair and reasonable. Yeah.
So, I think the most important thing is that we don't read a book in 40 years, how the West was lost. And so I think it's one thing for any nation or the United States to say I think this is unfair around trade, around the cost of military. I think there's some very good points, but I think Europe knows that they need to spend more on their military.
But that does not mean we shouldn't have military alliance with you all Europe in general and same with the economy. They need to do more. The GDP per person in Europe has dropped from something like 70% of America like 50%. That's not sustainable. I think Europe has already recognized it needs to change its own rules, regulations and guidelines if they want to grow faster.
And I think that's true, but it should be done with us. The goal should be in my view to strengthen Europe and get them closer, not to get them weaker and get them further. So I think fragmentation the world is a bad idea, fragmentation the western world and you can end up with the world looks like before World War I and World War II where it's almost every nation for themselves trying to figure out how they're going to protect themselves.
And unfortunately that might lead to proliferation of nuclear weapons. You know Warren Buffett talks about the resiliency of America if you just invested in America. I think that's been true. But part of the for any company here and a lot of Western companies around the world having a strong America has been good for them and having a strong western world has been good for them.
So if that wasn't true I think it would put us in a much more weaker state. I'm talking about over 40 or 50 years not the next 3 years or so. I think the real issue is there's ongoing uncertainty around tariffs, potential retaliation, how you can restructure your manufacturing supply chains if you were able to do that. I think those things are far more important and you know obviously those dollar weakness and 10-year bond weakness as a result of that.
But it happens in the short run of course you have deleveraging and that you know that may be somewhat over for now. We'll see. It was disorderly to the extent that it was a rapid move and stuff like that, but it wasn't. No, we saw most other markets were fine, but you know, credit spreads gapped out. If you look at what it means to the world, volatile markets, it's not bad for JP Morgan, but it is bad for the markets.
And when markets are very volatile, it scares people. They tend to not want to be owners. Credit spreads did gap out considerably. That means every company raising money is paying more for the money in two ways. One is the the absolute rates went up and the second is credit spreads gapped out and and that you know will cause some additional stress and strain in the system.
The US is still the most prosperous nation the world's ever seen. It's still a haven because of that strength, the rule of law, the strength of America's economy, innovation, the growth, the United States military which not just protects America, protects a good part of the western world. So it's still very strong.
But yes, a lot of this uncertainty is is challenging that a little bit. So you can be reading about this non-stop until hopefully these tariffs and trade wars settle down and go away so people can say I can rely on America. In my letter I wrote America first is okay but not America alone. And so if you talk about again it's I'm not worried about the markets as much as I am about keeping the western world together free and safe for democracy.
And that to me means you want to strengthen the economic relationships. It's an unfairness deal with it but uh we should be careful. I mean, I don't think anyone should assume they have a divine right to success and therefore don't worry about it. I simply try to describe the world as it is. I describe the world I want.
I got to deal with the world as it is. So, you know, we've had ups and downs before. We've had recessions before. I'm not as worried about that as I am about the bigger issue we've already spoke about. You never know the future. So, if you're a business person, you know, there might be a chance for recession. And I think it's almost a waste of time to constantly doing that every single day.
And when you build a company or a ship or any you got to say okay I have to deal with this whole range of outcomes you know and I always say the economy is like the weather it could be stormy it could be sunny you don't build your company saying I can only survive under one way I think some of these other uncertainties okay are material and you know one has been there for years now geopolitical I think you know trade tariffs potential retaliation the good news from deregulation so there all these things taking place you Will we settle Ukraine?
We settle good settlement for the sovereignty of Ukraine, a good settlement for Israel, you know, something with Iran. I don't know. But I think all of those things create what you're saying is a an abnormal amount of turbulence and kind of forecast and thing. And that might change how you invest your money.
You're not saying I'm going to change it because of a potential recession. I might change it because I have a completely different point of view about the future. And you know, we bank 80 million Americans in six million small businesses and cities, schools, states, hospitals, 100 countries. I think the health of those things is far more important than how I view the health of a JP Morgan or quote Wall Street.
I do object to this Wall Street thing because who is Wall Street? You know, we're owned by veterans, retirees, pension plans, you know, all around the country. That that's who I represent. And so when you say Wall Street, you including all these investors? Are you including the institutional investors who represent the veterans and the unions and the calpers and calisters? It's symbiotic.
Every time a big company makes a plant that hires 5,000 people, it hires 20 usually outside of that plan of 20,000 people that appear in small business. And so to me, it's just a misnomer when you do it. But the health of the economy, if you grow the economy, I wrote in my letter, if we grown at 3% a year over the last 20 years opposed to two, that's $15,000 more of GDP.
that would have lifted up all of society and very importantly the lower income side and that's what people forget if you grow the economy they will benefit the most when you shrink the economy they actually get hurt the most and so you know to me yeah our goal should be getting the whole now I wouldn't even say the middle class all of it can do better if we do a good job managing these economy jobs are still there consumers don't have all the extra money from co but they're still spending it's hard to tell how much is buying forward
because they're worried about tariffs but car sales clearly went up in the last couple weeks, but usually the consumer has stress when there's unemployment. So, you're going to see that when I see that and then you're going to see credit losses go up and home prices, all things be equal, come down versus what they might have been, etc.
And businesses are still doing fine and they're earning money, but I think all bets are off now. So, what you're going to see in the next 3 or 4 months is company after company report its earnings. They're going to tell you what they think about what the tariffs do to them, sales, their consumers. You're going to hear some companies probably feel in a lot of stress.
Some may benefit from all this. So, it's not clear, but I think you're going to see kind of in real time what people think about it. And there's not a business person I speak to who doesn't feel a little stressed trying to figure out what this all means. I always say with American exceptionalism, there's a really big butt.
And the butt is that we borrowed since co for 5 years, we borrowed and spent 11 trillion. And that 11 trillion showed up in the hands of consumers. They had a lot of excess cash. Credit losses came down. They spent a lot of that. It created some of the inflation. It created growth. It also created corporate profits. It's a big butt.
So, you know, we still have a deficit of $2 trillion a year. That's still a big butt. Like, when you're spending that kind of money, you know, there's another side to that mount. And there probably is. So, yeah, I think America's exceptional, but it wasn't quite that exceptional. If Europe, for example, had borrowed another trillion dollars and spent it, their GDP probably would have been a trillion dollars higher, but they would have had that same butt.
They did the same thing, just not to the extent of the United States. So, uh, but I think there was a little too much exuberance back then. I thought so at the time. And I think when they announced the Liberation Day tariffs, they were dramatically different than people expected. I mean, way off the table than what people expected. And that was shocking to the system.
I mean, the global system, not just in the United States. And of course, some have been already pulled back. I think some of these things will be bad. You have the internet bubble of 2000. I think some will do well. So, I don't think it's like one size will fit all. There is a lot of money going into it and you're going to see a lot of assumptions made that are
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UOwA_13kyDA&t=84s
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
Welcome to Catalyst. I'm Madison Mills. We're 30 minutes into the US trading day. Let's get you the three catalysts we're watching this hour. First up, we're going to break down the market outlook as investors balance trade risks with earnings. We'll get you those details ahead. Plus, we'll break down the implications for the auto industry with President Trump set to provide some relief.
And we're going to hone in on the state of the consumer with confidence and Jolt's data crossing the wire. [Music] Half an hour into the start of US trading. Let's get a check on the markets. Taking a look at the major averages here. You're seeing continued losses just a touch on the S&P 500 down about a tenth of a percent. Your tech heavy NASDAQ off nearly 3/10en of a percent.
You got the Dow moving to the upside here. Let's flip it over though to the bond market. See what we're seeing there. Treasuries continuing to sort of sort of start doing their job here when it comes to a riskoff moment in markets. You got your tenure at that 420 level, down about a basis point here. And finally, let's take a look over at Bitcoin here.
You've got Bitcoin up on the day, up nearly 1%, but still below that key 95,000 level. And we've got breaking Jolts data crossing the wire. Let's get you those numbers. Jolts job openings coming in just a touch under the 7.5 number that was expected coming in at 7.1 million. Here you've got the job openings rate coming in just slightly below the survey number of 4.
5% coming in at 4.3%. Really interesting to take a look at the quits rate as well coming in at 2.1%. It does look like the quits level was slightly above the survey estimate as well. The layoffs level interestingly coming in just below expectations. The layoffs rate coming in here at 1%. So really interesting to see some of that dynamic playing out in the labor market.
We've continued to hear from sources that the key thing to monitor, of course, is going to be the labor market when it comes to whether or not tariffs are causing considerable pain in our economy. Again, that job openings number coming in at 7.1 million, the estimate for 7.4 million. So, just a touch below those expectations, but I'm fascinated by that quits rate number.
Interesting to see that there's at least enough confidence for individuals that they are willing to quit their jobs at this moment. Well, to discuss this and more, I want to bring in Bob Lane. He is a leading technicals expert as well as the founder and technical analyst at Explosive Options. He's going to join me for the hour.
Bob, it's great to have you on. Thank you for making the time to stick with us for the hour this morning. I know that you look at the technicals, but it's interesting when the economic data tells us something about the state of the consumer, especially when job openings are such a big concern, right? To what extent are you seeing any recessionary fear playing out in the technicals right now? Really not seeing very much uh here, Maddie, with with recessionary fears yet.
And if you take a look at this JOL data, I looked at some history. Um, you realize that the JOL data has shown that this number has fallen about 50% in the last three and a half years. If you go back to the uh end of 2021 when we're close to 12 million on the Jolts. Now we're at 7 million. So it's it's a huge drop in uh in job openings, which kind of explains why the labor market has been so tight for such a long time.
We still have uh four to 4.2% unemployment rate. We're going to get a number coming up on Friday. And I think that that uh right there is going to tell you that the Fed is going to be more interested in watching more data related to inflation and not so much towards the uh towards the jobs number. Yeah.
And I I want to get your take to on HSBC cutting its annual price target for the S&P 500 this morning below the 6,000 mark, hitting it was previously at 6,700, now cutting its target to 5600. That's in line with Bank of America's forecast. What are you seeing in the technicals that indicate whether or not we could hit as low as 5,600 for year end? Well, certainly uh just a few weeks ago, we had some uh a huge drop down to about 4,800 on the S&P 500 and and that was a a scary number that a lot of people were looking at.
You know, are we going to hold that level? I think the NASDAQ had hit a level where uh it had technically been in bare market territory minus 20%. And for the S&P 500, u you know, that th this level right now that we're at right now, um is uh actually where many analysts are expect for us to finish by the end of the year.
So, so what do we have going here? I mean, is basically is is is the market full value right now? And and and that's really what these analysts are telling you. Uh what I think is interesting, Matty, is that uh from the beginning of the year, everybody knew tariffs were going to be introduced at some point in time in 2025 when after the election was uh in in November.
Um so these analysts still came out with some of these large price targets in the SP500 64 65. I even saw as high as 7,000 uh for the SP500. knowing the facts that we were going to have some tariffs and how the negative effect they were going to have on the economy. Why did they have such a a high price target? That's a that's what I'm wondering, right? I mean, that's a key question is what investors were missing heading into this administration. Thanks, Bob.
You're going to stick with us here. I do want to talk about consumer confidence, break this data for you. Consumer confidence falling for the fifth straight month in April to 86. Economists were expecting 88 here. Interesting to see the present situation number coming in at 133.5. That's just a touch below the prior number. Expectations coming in at 54.4.
The previous number was 65.2. So a significant move to the downside on those expectations. Joining us in studio to break it down. We got Yolena Shalia. She is the Conference Board's senior US economist. Elena, great to speak with you here. What does your headline take away from this report? Well, expectations are at 13-year low.
And uh if you look at uh what consumers are telling us about jobs availability, they expect that uh to be really really poor. So that index is actually uh at its highest level uh since the great recession. The index that tells us that consumers expect fewer jobs available. So this is telling us this is getting to the consumer.
They were surprised by the tariffs. Remember this survey was taken right uh at the um you know at the high peak of uncertainty during the liberation day that is included in the sample. So I think consumers were very much surprised by uh the severity of those tariffs and they are actually expecting to uh affect their finances and their jobs.
So I I want to pull out a jarring stat from this print that I know you'll be aware of. the share of consumers expecting fewer jobs in the next six months 32.1% nearly as high as in April 2009 in the middle of the great recession. Totally. So that is a scaring thing and uh they are very much concerned about their personal finances as well.
So uh I think the JOL's data that you cited earlier that is an interesting one as well because the job openings rate fell to 4.3%. 4.5% is kind of the borderline between, you know, uh, significant increases in the unemployment rate and small increases in the unemployment rate. When it falls below 4.5%. This is significant. We should probably expect uh much more significant increases in the unemployment rate.
And yet you have stocks rallying at the moment. To what extent do you think that the narrative about consumer resilience over the last four years is perhaps being taken for granted right now by consumers? Do you think or or by investors? Do you think that that consumer resilience is going to continue despite the soft data? I think yeah, exactly.
The soft data and the hard data when the hard data starts uh falling. That's where when we're probably going to see something. Well, the data on the last consumer confidence is about 12 year low and it does indicate that we may be heading into a recession. At what level would would you say uh we're out of that um recessionary potential? I mean uh usually expectations below 80 uh level is indicative of a recession.
We we are way below that uh for a few months now. So but it doesn't mean we're in a recession now. So uh you know there's been some disconnect between uh confidence sentiment indicators and the reality but I think we are going to start to see some uh follow through in the hard data. The one to watch is obviously this Friday and I think we're going to probably see a weak number as well even this early given that you know the tariff policy just went into place perhaps maybe it takes more time.
No you think we'll see it immediately. I think we're going to see a freeze in terms of hiring. Maybe not layoffs just yet, but uh hiring freezes will impact the number and perhaps uh some uh layoffs in uh the industries that are more uh susceptible to this uh trade shocks uh such as you know trade and transportation and uh other things like that. Yeah.
What are you watching to determine when that labor market data will really roll over and be indicative of some pain? Unemployment rate and the details beneath that unemployment rate. though flows into unemployment from different uh you know uh sectors layoffs into um you know jobs into unemployment out of labor force into unemployment if that starts rising that's uh going to be a really u tricky situation as far as the uh government is concerned we we we've seen quite a few layoffs the past couple of months and and how is
that going to uh have an effect and when is that going to have an effect on the jobs report because the report obviously huge lag effect on that with birth date uh uh birth death uh statistics but how soon will that show up in the data? We could see that uh this month this in this coming uh report.
The um big worry for the economy as a whole from that statistic is that you know it's not just government workers it's the contractors and the relation uh here is you know you are going to see that pass through into contractors at at a rate of 2.5 2.6 jobs per one uh government layoff. So that's a pass through.
Another thing is state and local government workers. Are we going to see a slowdown in that sector? most most likely because uh we are we ran out of uh the pandemic funds for them to hire people and the private sector I think we'll see a significant slowdown in legion hospitality uh for example because consumers are pulling back from this discretionary spending on services in the time of significant uncertainty so that is uh where we see we we're going to see some pass through I think yeah Neil Zetta has been flagging that state and local government
slowdown as something that is a significant risk for some time, Elena. So, thank you so much for bringing that up and for giving us great context on the data. Appreciate it as always. We're going to have all your markets action ahead here on Yahoo Finance. Stick around. You're watching [Music] Catalysts.
President Trump's first 100 days in office has been volatile to say the least. We're going to compare the market's performance since he was inaugurated to what the market expected after the election. I'm Jared Blickery, host of Stocks in Translation. And to begin with today, we're going to take a look at how large cap S&P 500 sectors, all 11 of them, have performed from November 5th of last year through January 17th, which was the last day of trading before the inauguration.
And we have that chart right here. It goes from materials all the way on the left, which was down a bit over that period, all the way to consumer discretionary, which was the biggest gainer. Consumer discretionary houses Amazon and also Tesla. Tesla saw that huge jump right after the inauguration and it looked like Jeff Bezos was making friendly with uh President Trump and then things reversed a bit.
But before I move on, I want to show you what was really popping in those early days after the election. Those were those market expectations. So financials were a big runner up there to consumer discretionary that was based on the deregulation push that uh President Trump was uh part of his agenda there. We also saw energy that was the uh another trade that was kind of a pillar of his first administration.
And then what wasn't working those early days real estate, consumer staples, and healthc care, those are all defensive sectors, but also materials, a cyclical sector. That was kind of an outlier. So an interesting case, but I do want to move on to what's actually happened since the inauguration. And I have two little data points on each of these sectors to help us decode that.
So the red dot, focus on that first. That was the inauguration to the April 8th market low and that was about 80 calendar calendar days or so. So not the full 100 about three-fifths or four fifths of that. But you can see the worst off was tech. Tech just got absolutely battered. Consumer discretionary as well.
That's that Amazon and Tesla trade. Even energy reversed hard to the downside. And then a lot of these other cyclical uh trades kicked in to the downside as well. industrials, materials stayed negative and also some others. Uh, but I do want to kind of bring it to the present here. I'll do that in a second and just tell you the white bar is where we are now.
So, we've seen a lot of these losses mitigated and we can see that in consumer discretionary. We had a big rally by Amazon and Tesla. We've seen tech come roaring back and we'll take a look at that in a second. Industrials, energy, materials. So, we've made some significant gains off the lows. So now we're going to take a look at what's happening since the inauguration in real time on the Wi-Fi interactive here.
And this is the heat map. This is how things are shaking out. Only consumer staples is in the green during this period. That's a pretty defensive sector. And if you look at the runners up, that would be utilities, real estate, and XLV, which is healthcare. Those are all very defensive sectors.
So that's not the that's not the greatest setup for a bull run. Um, by the way, the worst off still consumer discretionary and also energy to the downside, but and but we've made some tremendous gains off of those lows that we saw uh in the recent past. And at the number one spot is tech. So, it's nice to see that early leader in the bull trade, the AI trade.
Tech kind of resuming its perhaps rightful place in this bull market, which it still is. We haven't experienced that 20% draw down just yet. tech number one, consumer discretionary number two, the Amazon Tesla trade and then materials, even materials has come back, industrials, XLI there. So, we've seen cyclicals come running back and then what has been the lagard? Everything's in the green, but we do have uh some some uh sectors that are lagging. XLV is the biggest.
That's healthcare, then staples, then energy, then utilities. Those are all very defensive sectors for the most part. And uh you put it all together, we have the makings of a potential bull run here. Uh I don't want to get too far ahead of ourselves because we are looking for that next catalyst.
So we'll have to see how this one pans out. Tune in to Stocks and Translation for more market decoding deep dives. New episodes on Tuesdays and Thursdays on Yahoo Financ's website or wherever you find your podcast. Thanks so much. [Music] [Applause] Time now for some of today's trending tickers. We are watching Honeywell, Adidas, and Amazon.
First up, Honeywell raising its fullear earnings guidance incorporating the expected effect of tariffs. The company's mitigation actions and volatility in demand. This comes after the industrial conglomerate topped first quarter expectations with sales up nearly 8% from a year ago. I'm joined by Bob Lane, explosive options technical analyst, to discuss.
Bob, a huge pop in the shares here to a degree up over 5% and interesting to see just the degree of ability the company had to raise its fullear guidance especially on its EPS. What does that signal to you? Well, it tells me that they see a lot of strength coming out to the back half of the year and really not too much of effect from from tariffs which is always going to be a concern.
Now, Mattie, with uh with some of these companies that are reporting in this quarter right now, um I'm looking at free cash flow. for cash flow is huge for um for for Honeywell this quarter. Also margins were enormous uh up close to 20% which is uh for this quarter which is much higher than normal.
Um backlog grew 9% to uh with a high singledigit order growth. So some of these um metrics and some of these uh future earnings uh for uh an orders for Honeywell out there really give you a good uh clue as to what their business is like. And I think going out to the out years, we're talking about 2026 and even to 2027, the CEO said that their business looks robust.
Yeah, that certainly did. And that is perhaps why you're seeing that pop in the shares here. But we do want to move on to Adidas, warning it will have to raise prices on all US products due to President Trump's tariffs. The Sports Barrel company also holding off on boosting its financial guidance for the year because of the uncertainty despite strong first quarter results.
Interestingly here, the company's chief executive saying, "Since we currently cannot produce almost any of our products in the US, these higher tariffs will eventually cause higher costs for all of our products for the US market." So, Bob, what's interesting to me about this is a company, you kind of have two versions of exposure, exposure for the retailers, exposure to China and how much they can build in the United States.
And this company is saying it's not the exposure to China that's the issue, it's the inability to produce in the States. That's right. And I I you know, I look at this drop in in Adidas here as as a huge opportunity. I would I would take this opportunity to start buying some shares. And I'll tell you why.
Because the competitors are really faltering right now. And and they're tripping over themselves trying to figure out, you know, uh where they're going to be producing product. I think Nike is uh certainly, you know, obviously the the big player uh in shoes and in and athletic wear. They're wondering where they're going to be uh producing their their products.
Also, is it going to be China? Is it going to be India? elsewhere. And then when you talk about other companies like uh like Hoka shoes which are made by um uh I can't remember which the name of the company but we got Hoka shoes which you know really ramped up their business about two years ago and they they managed to um take a lot of share away from Adidas and from Nike and from Puma and some of these other names.
Um but I think they're also running into an issue there um uh w with production as well too. So, I think at least Adidas is coming out in front of the problem right now. All right, Bob, we also want to get to Amazon Amazon slammed by the White House for reportedly planning to display the cost of President Trump's tariffs next to the total price of products on its website.
White House press secretary Karen Lev calling it a quote hostile and political act. But Amazon critically now denying the report. That's according to a reporter with the Washington Post citing an Amazon spokesperson saying this was never under consideration for the main Amazon website. instead saying this was about Amazon Hall.
Remember, Amazon Hall is the competitor to Shien, to Teemo. We've seen Shien and Teeu lifting prices significantly over the past couple of weeks. And again, this is just according to a Washington Post reporter who did say the team that runs our ultra lowcost Amazon Hall is considering listing import charges on products.
Never a consideration for the main Amazon site. I am out to multiple people at Amazon to try and get clarity on this this morning. But Bob, as you can see, this hasn't stopped Amazon stock from suffering a bit, right? And I'll tell you what, if this is the reason why Amazon is down today, I I'm in there buying it with both hands. They have earnings coming out later on this week.
Usually, the first quarter is not their best quarter, but I think coming off of a huge holiday period for for Amazon, which was the fourth quarter. This first quarter, I think they're going to come out lights out. I think the AWS business is is finally made a huge turn last quarter, and they're ramping up their business. Um, I think any any drop here in Amazon is a huge opportunity um for uh for investors and traders.
All right, Bob, thank you so much. For our audience, you can scan the QR code below to track the best and worst performing stocks with Yahoo Finance's trending tickers page. Well, big tech is pressing pause on some of its AI data center plans. Microsoft said it's slowing some of its construction projects, while a recent report from Wells Fargo said Amazon Web Services was considering pulling back its spend.
But that doesn't necessarily mean the AI spend itself is slowing. So far, both Amazon and Microsoft have stood by their 2025 capex forecasts. The two planning to spend a combined $180 billion. Joining us now with more context on how those AI data center dollars are being spent.
We've got Anthony Johnson, CEO of Clayco. It's a construction firm specializing in data centers with clients including Google, AWS, and Microsoft. Anthony, great to speak with you here. Talk to me about what you are seeing in terms of this investment here. What are you seeing cross your desk? Does it mirror some of the reporting that we've heard thus far in some of these earnings calls? Yeah, thank you. Good morning.
Appreciate the chance to speak with you again. Um, happy to dive into that a little bit. I would say that what what we're hearing and seeing on a daily basis is uh, you know, continues to be incredible demand for growth in this space. Um, I think you can kind of relate the data center expansion to other industries over time to where neither the industry's trajectory nor the individual companies within that industry.
Their their business plans, their trajectories, they're not always exactly linear. Their plans change over time. They need to adopt. New technologies are introduced which which causes the time to maybe shift or adjust your plans. And so that happens on an individual company basis all the time. But the industry as a whole remains very very strong.
And we're seeing nothing but continued growth trends in the business. Yeah. And to what extent are you monitoring what you're hearing in terms of capex this earnings cycle? Obviously, Alphabet was the first of your clients that we listed and and they did mention that they are maintaining their capex spend. Does that match with what you're hearing about in terms of capex or are you even hearing about a potential growth in capex moving forward? Yeah, you know, largely what what we see in here mirrors what you see in the in the public announcements in terms of
what each company's individual goals are. Um, and as we, you know, look across the pipeline of of prospects as well, it's it's really not even just the the big, you know, hyperscalers, the big names you're showing on the screen here as well, there's other uh players that are in the space. There's also the quantum computing side of things that are that is continuing to to grow exponentially.
So, we we're really excited for all the continued trends in the business. And I I wonder too when you think about those trends in the business, I I want to talk a little bit about investment in domestic infrastructure. Obviously, this is something the Trump administration wanted from the big tech companies. We've seen 500 billion from the likes of Nvidia.
Now, an additional 150 billion from the likes of IBM. How do you see these investments impacting the ability for these firms to meet growing demand and therefore increase profits? It is truly a modern space race we're kind of in the midst of right now. No question. It is u it is there's there's a lot of new capital coming to the space to be deployed which is exciting.
Uh that introduces you know new resources. It introduces an additional level of speed that we may not have otherwise had. Um really the the you know with the support of the the government and and big investment from and support from that standpoint that just adds further fuel to this this growth fire. Um what what we really see as as the constraints in the industry are how fast can we get power and um you know that's that's a constant puzzle that's changing that we're helping companies look uh throughout the United States of you know
weighing their options and finding sites that either have existing power or can be modified and and um you know how fast can that happen? How fast can new infrastructure be built with a utility company? how fast can that infrastructure be actually fabricated by the companies who make turbines and and things like that.
So, it's really a mad dash of pulling together um all different types of energy providers um renewable sector solar specifically natural gas um uh obviously in nuclear is a big part of the conversation today and and you know repurposing some of those facilities to support this rapid growth. So, as we look at our business as a whole, um, you know, we're not just, you know, needing to provide assistance on the construction of these facilities, it's really leveraging the full vertical integration of our enterprise, which includes, um, on the
real estate side, helping our owners find powered sites, on the design engineering side, helping to get these facilities built for the the newest modern technology, and then obviously on the construction side, the delivery. And you know, one of the bigger challenges that we're working with our customers to overcome right now is is also the labor side of things.
The explosive growth in this and the need for skilled trades. And so that all-encompassing solution is what our customers are really looking for to help achieve that exponential growth rate in this constrained environment. All right, Anthony, we got to run. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. Thank you. Coming up, we'll speak to the Coca-Cola company CEO about the company's earnings, trade policy, and the consumer. You won't want to miss it.
[Music] Welcome back to Yahoo Finance. Coca-Cola shares popping after topping expectations for its first quarter earnings. Let's get right into it with the CEO of Coca-Cola, James Quincy. James, always nice to get some time with you. Welcome back to Yahoo Finance. Uh now, I just got off your earnings call. talking about how volume was impacted by by consumer sentiment weakening volumes in North America down 3%.
You know, as you zoom out and you study the health of the US consumer, are they experiencing recessionary conditions given everything going on in the world as it pertains to the trade war? Um, look, I think we we had good global volume growth, 2% globally, and yes, there was a there was a decline in the US.
I think the that as it relates to the decline in the US in Q1, it was much more a set of uh kind of factors specific to Q1. There was some very cold weather in January. Uh Easter is much later this year than previous years, which is a big selling period uh for us. And there was some consumer pullback more specifically in some of the Hispanic uh areas of the country.
Um I I wouldn't call it recessionary at all. I think it was really much more idiosyncratic in terms of a few factors. Um because actually even though sentiment's been impacted as we come into April, you know, consumers are still out there spending. So I think it's more a continuation of certain consumer segments under pressure because of inflation coming out of last year.
Uh that we need to deliver affordability options and then some kind specific reasons in Q1. And we we know what we need to fix. uh we know what we need to focus on going forward and get back on our growth plan. I think as you say that given the current dynamics Q2 and Q3 could be a little choppy uh but we know what we need to do as it relates to the US within the global portfolio.
James, within that consumer weakness in North America, is it more pertaining to the shopper that goes to a supermarket to buy a couple bottles of soda or is it more confined to the convenience store channel, which in my view has always been viewed as a leading economic indicator? Look, if you look at the US business, the weakness in volume in Q1 was concentrated in what we call future consumption packaging, which is much more predominantly uh in in in supermarkets or in kind of independent trade uh outlets rather than either
convenience or uh the kind of away from home QSRs and all the away from home channels. So that's where the weakness was focused which I think is a partly an indication of some of the affordability pressure uh for the lower income consumers and some of the geopolitical reaction.
Um so that's why I think that with what our strategy that we're putting in place we can certainly begin to address that weakness while still maintaining uh good growth in the rest of the portfolio in the rest of the channels. James you're the second CEO of a large package goods company. Call out weakness in the consumer in the Hispanic consumer to me.
The other one was two weeks ago when I talked to Constellation Brand CEO Bill Nulans. Of course, they make Modell and Corona beer. He thinks it's because of the administration's uh immigration policies and other economic concerns. Would you agree with that assessment? Why is that Hispanic consumer under a lot of pressure? Um I I I'm not sure I would characterize it that way.
Look, I think that the Hispanic some of the Hispanic consumers in the in particularly in some of the southern states in the US and actually frankly in some of the northern states uh in Mexico there's a high degree of economic integration of the supply chain uh between those parts uh uh you know the Mexico particularly northern Mexico uh and the US and I think some of the the the uncertainty that's about exactly where is this going caused them to pull back a little in terms of spending.
Um I don't see that as a permanent feature. I think this will be worked through. Uh I think it's to some extent the newness of the news. Um so we believe if we focus on reinforcing that we got yes we got global brands but those brands are made local in every country around the world and the operations are local, the factories, the employees are local.
Um now backed up with affordability and execution that we'll be able to uh see a kind of a normalized uh business with with with all our consumers including some of the Hispanic ones in those areas. James, I've had CEOs tell me privately they of global companies, they have started to see anti-American sentiment impact their businesses in various ways, notably on the top line.
Have you seen that with Coca-Cola? And then if so, how do you plan to respond? Look, I think the there have been waves in the past of, you know, anti-US sentiment uh for a whole series of reasons going back historically and I'm sure there'll be some in the future. Um so this not the first time there's been a bit of pressure on sentiment towards the US and we have seen in certain countries that happen this year as it happened uh the last couple of years for different reasons.
Um we have a very clear game plan as I said we may have a global brand portfolio but the operations are profoundly local. So by focusing in on the localess the the brands the the products in those country are made in those country by local workers largely using locally sourced ingredients um backed up with affordability and good marketing whilst you can't stop every problem and you don't bounce back immediately you do bring business back to where it was and so we have a very clear game plan on how to get that and we'll roll it out as and
where uh we see we see the pressures. The trade war of course James is impacting businesses in many different ways. How much this year will your cost be up because it's going to cost more to buy dispensing machines from overseas suppliers or concentrate or aluminum cans? I mean, do you have a number you could share? I don't have a number I can share because it's really putting a a focus on a very narrow uh cost lever within the business.
Yes, wheel the company have to pay a little more for some dispensing as you said, maybe some maybe some orange juice, maybe the bottles for some resin and aluminum, but you got to take it in the round. I mean, you got to add to that. Well, what's happening with the underlying commodity price? What's happening to the exchange rate? Where do we sit with our hedged positions? And that's just talking about those those singular uh inputs.
You got to look across the whole broad spectrum of all the cost levers. And then every year there'll be some pluses and minuses. And I wouldn't call out any one uh because there's not rising above a massive uh spike and and within the managing the pluses and minuses of the cost levers. We have not as yet ourselves or our local bottling partners uh in the in the US seen a need to change our current pricing plans.
So you're not raising prices this quarter. We're not doing it out of cycle. Obviously prices went up because a whole set of normal things, last year's inflation, uh that's already happened. Uh but we're sticking to our current pricing plan, uh because you know, some things are more expensive and some things are less expensive and it all goes into the bundle.
Would you at least uh take a page of what looks to be what Amazon is doing reportedly today, listing tariff price related increases on its site? So if you're not going to take price increases, would you show consumers in full transparency this is what it would cost here and because of tariffs you're paying now more for Coca-Cola? I'm I'm I'm we don't break out elements of our cost structure anywhere across our cost structure.
I'm not sure why I would do it differently for one element. I mean then the next day you'll ask me, well why didn't you show this piece and why didn't you show that piece? No, that's not how that's we're going to manage all the cost structure and we're going to we're going to offer it to the marketplace at a certain price and we believe through our marketing and our innovation and our commercial policies and our execution, our packaging, uh we will earn the right uh to to to to show the consumer that's good value for the products we offer. You made a great
point on the earnings call this morning, James, amongst uh many to be quite frank with you that we're not going to see empty shelves with Coca-Cola. I'm going to go into Walmart. I'm going to go into Target and we're not going to see supply chain disruptions for your product and that's certainly good.
But we're now we're hearing reports that you could see less imports from China to the US. There might be empty shelves around the products you sell at these retailers. I mean, how do you respond to that? And do you see the self do you see that being a headwind to your business? Um, I don't know the final answer to that question, Brian.
Um clearly you know if you look at data on uh shipping container bookings getting out into late May and early June um there's a big drop now to what extent people have already brought it in and they've got plenty of stock to what extent not. It's very difficult for me to tell across all these different sectors.
I certainly can imagine there might be disruptions in other categories around uh beverages. Uh, and I don't know whether that'll mean people do less less trips to the supermarket or they actually, frankly, have more money to spend on the things that are there. It's very unclear. Um, I think we're going to find out, but there's nothing I can do about that.
I need to focus on my game plan uh and keep executing the core growth strategy of the company. And so, we'll keep turning up. Uh, we'll keep making sure the the shelves have our beverages on them. Uh, and we'll keep making them attractive uh for consumers. Uh lastly, James, over the course of seven years, while you've been in that seat as a CEO of Coca-Cola, you've driven a lot of innovation.
Now, we've seen deal activity pick up in the beverage space in the past year or so. What are you doing on the innovation front this year? And can you continue at the pace you have been driving the business over the past seven years given everything going on in the world? Uh we c we certainly need to we want to keep focusing on driving more innovation.
Um and we will need to be ruthless about the innovation that doesn't work and double down on what does work. But it's still you know emblematically this first quarter in the US the number one brand in US retail in terms of adding dollars of sales growth uh was Fair Life and there's still a long way to go. So we'll be innovating in new stuff.
We just launched Simply Pop and we'll be doubling down on innovation to extend the runway on newish brands like Fair Life and of course doing innovation uh on the core mothership brand Coca-Cola which we did with with Orange Cream as well this quarter um to really keep making Coca-Cola relevant for the next generation of consumers.
So innovation will be a core piece of what we do and we we believe it will continue to drive our growth strategy. Keep turning out that fair life. James, I use it all the time after my workouts. James Quincy, uh, chairman and coal. Always nice to get some time with you. We'll talk to you soon. Thanks, Ryan.
All right, Madison, over, uh, over to you. Thanks so much, Brian, for bringing us the fantastic interview as always. Really appreciate it. We're going to have all your markets action ahead, so stick around. You're watching Catalysts. General Motor is pulling its 2025 earnings guidance and pausing share buybacks amid tariff uncertainty.
This as White House press secretary Caroline Levit confirms President Trump will sign an executive order on auto tariffs today expected to soften the impact of levies on the sector. Joining me now Michael TD Cowan equity analyst. Always great to speak with you. What does all of this mean for GM? Scrapping guidance freezing p buybacks a net income slide.
Where does it leave you on the stock? Sure. Yeah. Uh, thank you for having me. So, really no surprises, a solid quarter from GM, a modest beat uh, pretty much all around. I think it does make sense given the near-term uncertainty to pause uh, the open market share purchases. We've seen other companies do that in the space as well.
And given to your point just kind of yesterday's developments with tariffs, I think the company wanted a couple more days to digest the news before they come back to the market and update the 2025 guidance. So, makes a lot of sense to us. But overall, the quarter was solid and now we're eagerly awaiting uh Thursday's update.
And talk me through the pull forward dynamic and whether or not you're seeing that in GM's earnings here because obviously net income sliding in the first quarter. To what extent does that indicate to you that consumers weren't interested in pre purchasing from GM before the tariffs were put into effect? Yeah, we we did see some some signs of a pre-by in the US for new vehicles in the month of March.
Uh although you know some of that did come out of GM's inventory. So inventory ended up lower than expected. Uh we do still see some pentup demand though in the US. We do think underlying auto demand is relatively strong. We think consumers from our survey work at TD Cowan. Consumers do want to increase their cars per household in the next couple of of years per our survey back in in February.
So underlying auto demand trends were strong throughout Q1. But you're right, we did see some pre-by uh in March. We could see maybe some of that in into the second quarter. Uh but overall if you look at GM's market share performance in Q1, their pricing performance in Q1, the success of their new products, the company does continue to execute well and perform very well overall.
It's Tai on the international spectrum here. We saw good strength in China and and elsewhere other other countries as well too. Um do you see that continuing? Um I I saw that EBIT uh for international was up close to uh 150% in China over over it was negative in China. It's up a positive 45 million EBIT for uh for the China income.
Do you see that continuing or is that part of that pull forward you were talking about? Yeah, the international probably didn't see pull forward. Uh GM International did come in a little bit below our forecast in Q1, but you're right, they have been making some progress in China. It's been very challenging for GM in China. They've done a number of restructuring actions there.
So, we do s see uh prospects for improvement there over the next couple of years uh in the international business, but most of the pull forward uh really was concentrating in the US starting uh in the month of March. And I want to broaden the conversation out a bit, Tai, because you cover so many of the automakers. President Trump is expected to soften auto tariffs at a rally tonight.
I I'm curious which of the automakers that you cover do you anticipate rallying the most when we wake up to the opening bell tomorrow morning off the back of those announcements of softened tariffs for automakers? Absolutely. We're still waiting a lot more detail and definitely some open questions and clarifications, but if you kind of look at just the relief on the parts tariff themselves, you that would benefit companies uh that have a fair amount of of of US footprint um in Ford certainly has more US of vehicle manufacturing footprint than GM. Tesla
of course produces all their vehicles uh in in the US in terms of the North America footprint. So those companies would stand to benefit uh more just because they're more exposed to uh parts tariffs. So any relief and again waiting for for more detail but any relief on parts tariffs would acrewue kind of all else being equal to companies that are are more exposed to them uh in the context of the overall tariff situation.
GM of course would be exposed as well but still a significant footprint in both Mexico and Canada. Um, and so we'll have to kind of see whether there's any future uh relief on on those as well. But for now, from what we've read, uh, the immediate relief seems to be focused on on the parts uh, predominantly as well as some of the stacking tariffs uh, that that have been in question as well.
All right, thank you so much for joining us and that great breakdown. Also, thanks to my guest host Bob Lang for sticking with us for the conversation. Appreciate you both. Coming up here, we're going to take a look at President Trump's first 100 days in office, both stock market performance and his approval rating. That's next.
[Music] As President Trump notches 100 days in office, we want to break down how the economy and voters are responding to his second term so far. Joining me now, we've got Yahoo Finance Washington correspondent Ben Wkll and senior columnist Rick Newman. Guys, great to get the game back together here. Ben, I want to start with you.
How is Trump responding to the underperformance of the stock market since he took office? For sure. Yeah. So, the White House is going all out this week on their 100 days, but the one sort of huge fly in the ointment here is the stock market, which is down 8%. The S&P is down 8% since inauguration day. And I'm a I'm a bit of a glutton for punishment.
So, I went back and looked at basically every time Trump and his aids have talked about the market over these first 100 days to kind of to sus out some trends. And I found three that I think are are telling about kind of how Trump approaches it. The first one is essentially a case that this was the plan all along.
Trump described the the drop the drop right after Liberation Day as quote expected and it's sort of part of a larger argument from them that this is part of a transition that it's gonna that's a short-term downturn in the stock market that's going to go up. The other thing that's interesting is a real focus on other subjects.
You hear a lot more about Deep Seek the the Chinese AI company that did rattle markets in January. United healthcare earnings have come up as as other reasons for the declines even though I think it's sort of clear that tariffs are the huge driver here from him. And then the third is a kind of untrumpian refrain about how maybe the stock market isn't as important as it has been.
This this is a kind of a this happens now and again it kind of tends to last until the next upday when Trump tends to revert to form and and tout anytime the market goes up even though those days are few and far between. The through line here is that basically even as we had a stage in this first 100 days where Trump was clearly prioritizing tariffs over the market and the market reaction, he has reverted to form a little bit the last few in the last few weeks to to really kind of dial back and blink on on certain elements of
his tariffs which have a clear market impact that he likes. Well, Rick, I want to bring you in because as Ben said, the fly in the lemon. I I wonder to what extent you think the uh survey data and the voter approval ratings are starting to become perhaps a bigger fly in the lemon than the stock market. Right.
Trump's uh approval rating has declined somewhat. It it hasn't um collapsed. Uh but we're definitely seeing some notable changes. And one of the things that I noticed the most, I compare what's going on with Trump to uh many prior presidents. We've got data going all the way back to the 1970s.
Uh, and Trump's approval rating, uh, is really the only one that has gone kind of gone straight down since he since he took office. Um, Joe Biden at this point, uh, his approval rating was 57% and Trump has fallen down from about 48 at the beginning to about 40%. Uh, worth pointing out that, um, Trump's approval on handling of the economy is now a net negative.
I mean, that's basically the thing that got him elected in 2024 is voters thought he would do a better job of getting uh B the inflation of the Biden presidency under control. And that is flipping. And I uh this is all happening uh before the worst effects of the tariffs actually come into effect. I mean, we're not seeing the price increases yet because a lot of the stuff on store shelves uh was ordered before the tariffs went into effect.
We're not seeing product shortages yet, which seems likely to happen. Uh, some of the other problems. So, Trump is on a downward trajectory and it seems like it's probably going to continue. All right, great overview there, Rick and Ben. Thank you both so much for joining us this morning. Appreciate it. Thank you.
Before we go, I do want to get some final thoughts from Bob Lane joining me in studio. Explosive options technical analyst. Bob, I'd be remiss to let you go without talking about some options plays, especially as we gear up to hear from some of these big tech firms this week. What are you thinking about as a potential play ahead of some of those earnings? Well, I'm looking at names like like Meta Platforms and Amazon for uh two names.
And why am I looking at those names? Those stocks have come down significantly from their recent highs. These are two of the seven mag seven names. And uh Meta will be reporting tomorrow. So I I I look at an options play as a little bit less risk than taking on a uh buying shares of the stock and because you know you're only paying a fraction of the of the uh of the stock price when paying paying up for options.
Now obviously um options are going to be juiced up uh it's always in front of an earnings report. There's four earners reports a year for these companies and and the uncertainty creates a lot of um mis mystery in in the stock and how it's going to go and a lot of demand for those options is going to create a lot of value and those option prices are always um going to be juiced up and accelerated right in front of the earnings report.
So um I'm looking for maybe an at the money play for for Meta and for Amazon. Meta is trading at about what $540 roughly. um Amazon about 185 bucks and I'm looking for something at the money. Um maybe going out a month or two, maybe out to June or even July and and that's going to give us a little bit of time to uh let the stocks move after earnings.
I think that these companies have downbeat earnings earnings expectations right now, especially the analysts who come down and uh and knocked a lot of their uh earnings expectations down. So the bar is low, Maddie, and I think that these companies can uh can deliver. Just about 30 seconds here, but what is the sort of pricing at the moment telling you about how much volatility there might be off the back of these earnings? Enormous amount of volatility right now.
I think uh with the VIX 2526, the market is looking for a one and a half% move. That one and a half% what is that 75 handles on the S&P 500, 300 handles on the NASDAQ. So those are big moves that the market's expecting to see coming from the markets and also on on these individual names.
Implied volatility is through the roof. All right, Bob. Great overview there and great investment ideas for our audience to take away actionable ideas. Thank you so much, Bob, for joining us for the hour. Really appreciate it. Coming up here, we've got wealth. It's dedicated to all of your personal finance needs. Our very own Brad Smith, he's going to have you for the next hour. So stay tuned for more.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OICEOjayJms&t=121s
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English - CC1
English (auto-generated)
Welcome back to next gen investing. It is time for under 30. And joining us now is Jeff Pierce in place of George Tillis to help us discuss SoFi here now post earnings. Jeff good to see you again man. What is the takeaway here in SoFi. You had us all excited going into this report. And it looks like you were on to the right the right track here as we got green on the screen for SoFi shares.
Well, as you mentioned yesterday, there's a lot of, you know, SoFi investors that are very loyal out there today. I think they're very happy with what they saw. We saw better than expected results. Profitability on a GAAP basis for the sixth quarter in a row, strength across all segments, financial services in particula, shined over 100% growth there.
And of course, they raised their guidance. As we dig into the numbers, earnings were $0.06 versus the $0.04 expected revenue up 33% at 771 million. That's the highest growth rate in five quarters adjusted EBITDA up 46%. The company also brought in 800,000 new customers, bringing their total to over 10.
9 million, up 34% year over year. If we look at the fee based revenue, very important area that they're focusing on grew 67% to a record 315 million, showing a lot of growth beyond just the interest income. Financial services up 100%. As I mentioned, technology platform segment grew about 10% and the loan business total originated loans reached 7.
2 billion this year, with about 1.6 billion originating in the first quarter. A lot of good numbers coming out of the loan side. And finally that outlook, they raised net revenue expectations for 2025 to 3.23 5 to 3.31 billion, up from their prior prior outlook. Okay, so I mean, I think that the fact that they were able to not only give guidance but give guidance stronger than had been anticipated is again, I know I've said this a few times on this show today because we keep talking these companies that have had better than expected
guide, but it's just such a refreshing tone shift from so much of the doom and gloom we've looked at lately. But other than, I mean, the strong guidance, strong report, are we seeing signs of some respect amongst the sell side here? Because I did see some several analysts today being like, hey, this is a formidable competitor in the financial world right now that perhaps we haven't been giving enough credit to so far.
And some of these phenomenal growth metrics, I think absolutely are. And from the reaction from the street here, I mean, it reached around $14.50 this morning, obviously has come back a little bit, but I think we could have seen a bigger reaction had the stock not been doing so well over the last month.
To your point, on the sell side, are we seeing some respect? I think so yesterday you asked if the competition was really just among the smaller fintech names or if they were going, you know, attempting to go against some of the big bank names. The CEO even said that he envisions the SoFi becoming one of the top ten financial institutions in the US, based on market cap.
Currently, there are about 14.6 billion. But they're really making, you know, making waves in terms of kind of their cross selling, getting away from just interest income. And, you know, the big question mark, I think, has been whether or not the macro picture is going to be helpful or hurt them right now, whether or not student loans coming back would overshadow any pain from the macro side of things.
And at least from this report, I think we're seeing that it's almost business as usual, if not better. Yeah, Jeff, I saw the CEO, Anthony Noto, was speaking to Bloomberg at about 10 a.m. Central time, and some of the takeaways from that that I thought were interesting is they actually describe a regulatory environment that they find more favorable, that allows for more products.
That's such a different tone than what headlines are kind of, you know, really firing with all the tariff uncertainty. But then also they talked about their typical consumer or customer being a household income of over 150,000. I think we so much have pigeonholed so far into this young kind of maybe recently graduated college post-college, you know, entry level worker doesn't sound like that.
They don't they don't see it that way. And they kind of see this as the one stop shop for the affluent, the young affluent. That's how Bloomberg positions it. Final thoughts before we say goodbye. I would agree with that. I mean, I think when you think of SoFi, you think of kind of the original basis of someone putting something in a shopping cart, trying to figure out whether or not they want to do this as a loan based product.
Now, when you look at some of these loan numbers, personal loans at 5.5 billion, home loans up 54% at 518 million. Student loan originating. Of course, the original business up 59%. I think what we're seeing here is this is becoming more and more of a household name kind of loan business across all different, you know, types of individuals.
So that's good news for this company. And it shows potential for growth, no doubt about it. Yeah. And even the health of some of their credit that they get lend obviously to consumers is frankly so impressive. So I think this has been such a fun
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fIBpZ3uaocE&t=124s
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English - CC1
English (auto-generated)
day again. What is this, the fifth or sixth day up? Larry Tentarelli is with us, chief technical strategist for blue Chip daily trend Report. Larry, nice to see you. Thank you for being here. Nicole. Great to see you. What do you think about the markets? What are you feeling? How what's happening here. It's acting much better now.
I think two and a half weeks ago, I think we put in a major low into the S&P 500. We had the highest weekly volume in 14 years and it was a 13% upside reversal week. So from the dead lows 13% higher. That's indicative of how many bear markets have ended in the past. And then last week we had another very strong breadth thrust higher.
And it looks like this week we've got intraday dips that are being bought. It's all very bullish price action. So it's interesting so that you think that the low may be in. I mean I mean you're not the someone else said that today as well. And people start to question that. I mean there are plenty of people who think we should go back down there and try again.
Is this buying opportunities now? Are you seeing buying opportunities? What kind? Yeah. So well, there's two ways to look at it from a technical perspective. I do believe that the lows are in. There's three things that we have to pay attention to. I don't want to see the trade tariffs walk back. I don't want to see that.
You know any walk back there. We need to hit earnings for the Mag seven stocks. And we need the economy to avoid a recession. So if we hit all of those three things I think that the lows are absolutely in. Tech has been leading. So stocks like Palantir, CrowdStrike, Netflix have been acting very well. Gold and gold miners our favorite ideas.
And believe it or not, defensive stocks. Stocks like tobacco stocks defensive health care stocks. So I'm seeing strength across the board. Wow. When you think about these names like Palantir, CrowdStrike and Netflix, are those longer term plays. I mean can people be buying into those. Or maybe dollar cost averaging now and going forward for the long term? Absolutely.
So those are your true leaders right now. And what's happened with those stocks is they've performed much better than the Mega-caps. Apple Amazon Microsoft. These stocks got to be very over owned. And what you're seeing is those stocks right now are still below the 200 day moving average. Netflix just made new all time highs very strong.
Palantir is underneath the highs. CrowdStrike is very close. So what it shows is that investors are moving into these stocks that are, you know, smaller market caps that they see potentially bigger growth going forward. And I think it's a great idea. Like you said, dollar cost average. Some of these stocks broke out pretty sharply like Netflix.
So what I've been doing is scaling into new positions, maybe start a half of a position, and then over the next week or two, look to put some of the money to work. And then what about something like Bitcoin? I heard one of the money managers talking upstairs saying, yeah, don't chase Bitcoin. I mean, now that it's at 95,000 it's going to go back down again.
Then I have other guests who come on and say 120,000 by the end of the year, 250 by next summer. So that's something that you're watching maybe a Bitcoin ETF. What do you recommend. So everybody has a view. I focus on the charts. And Bitcoin broke out at $90,000. So over 90,000 was a technical buy signal for Bitcoin.
It recently held right around the 40 week moving average. So the trend is up. The price is acting well. So I want to be long bitcoin here. And on any pullbacks I like the ETF IB t o the I bit. Yes because there are a few now. I mean there's so many that got approved. You know why does Ibit stand out to you versus the other ETFs.
I focus on the highest volume ETFs. And the last I looked, Ibert was the highest volume in that liquidity. And so you feel like that's the most accurate because it has the most volume. Right I want to follow the institutions. So wherever I see the highest volume, that tells me that's where the institutional money is. And I want to follow them.
Theoretically, that's the smart money, right? Let's talk about Tesla, which is at 285 today. That high that we remember was for $488. That was a mid December. Where do you think Tesla could be headed? Tesla's a very interesting stock here. So I started a new position yesterday. So I was fortunate I did buy Tesla right after the election.
So we participated in that move up closed it out. So Tesla right now is showing some promise. It closed over the 50 day moving average last week for the first time in four months. It's just below the 200 day moving average. It just tested it yesterday. And it's the first of the Mag seven stocks to really be testing that 200 day moving average right now.
It's not a high conviction chart yet. So it's not a confirmed uptrend like Palantir. Netflix if it closes over $300, I would look for 350 pretty soon. And a lot could be based on what happens with earnings in the next few days. Yeah, I mean, when you talked about Netflix, that has been stellar. I mean, that one is I mean that's got to be above certain moving averages because it hit new highs. Yeah.
Because you said this is the only mag seven is Netflix not in the mag. Netflix is not in the mag seven G. It used to be in Fang. It was in Fang. It's not in the mag seven, right? But this is an unbelievable chart here. When you look at this six months up 50% for Netflix, then you also have the gold miners. Gold itself. Tell me the play there.
Because gold did hit its records. Gold hit new all time highs. Gold miners just broke out to 12 year highs. And I think that gold and miners are really a tariff play. I think they're a weak US dollar play. And what we've seen is as this tariff news cycle has accelerated, the dollar sold off quite a bit.
Gold is a direct beneficiary. Gold miners have not caught up. So gold made new record highs. Gold miners are still well below the all time highs, but both are in uptrends. So I want to have positions. There were long both of those. And you would use Gdx for that, right? Probably is my favorite. And what else are you looking at? So I don't miss anything.
Sure. So there's a lot and there's a lot of things that I'm not looking at. I'm still not a fan away from staying away. I'm still not a fan of the mag seven yet. Okay. I want to see what happens with earnings over the next few days. But keep in mind all of those stocks are below the 200 day moving average.
But so I focus on, as you know, the strongest stocks wherever they may be stocks like Berkshire Hathaway very very strong tobacco stocks Philip Morris. Altria just reported earnings. That's holding up very well. British American tobacco. These are in very strong uptrends low PE high dividend. I think British American Tobacco has a 7% dividend yield.
So there's really uptrends across the board. The only place I'm not looking too much are banks and energy stocks. Right now. I'm kind of staying away from the cyclicals for the time being. And do you think in the end I mean that the market the S&P and the Nasdaq, do you think you think we get back to new highs at some point.
That's a good question. I mean does that happen this year or next year. I'm I'm not so much in the new highs right away camp yet. So to get to new highs we really need these mega-caps to turn back up. And they've got some work to do. So I'm in the lows are in and we can buy selectively. But I'm not betting on new highs as of yet.
All right Larry it's so great to see you. I'm glad you were here in person to tell us all about these. Thank you very much. Larry Tentarell
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8zMc6pjRGlo&pp=0gcJCYQJAYcqIYzv
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English - CC1
English (auto-generated)
trading 360. I'm Diane King Hall. Time now for the big three. Three stocks, three charts, three trades. Ben Watson will take us through the charts. And here to take us through the trades. We've got Jessica Inskip director of investor research stockbrokers.com. It is great to see both of you. All right Jessica let's start out with the first one on your list.
You've got Fastenal in your sight. It's been outperforming the S&P 500 year to date. Take us through your thesis here. Yeah absolutely. And it goes with really my overall macro view I think there's a ceiling of uncertainty within the market right now. Right. We need to see earnings follow through. And that could certainly help get us to that resistance point.
However that uncertainty in relation to tariffs, companies don't know how to really manage. If you don't know how to manage, I think we're going to get less forward looking guidance. If we have less forward looking guidance, it's still uncertainty, which means the market needs that to come back in.
Also, watching the ten year, five year seems the or 5% seems to be where Bessant is really paying attention to. And on his notes this morning, he talked a lot about how he felt these tariffs weren't supply chain issues because he talks to all of the small businesses, but for me it feels rather Covid esque because we were considering supply chain issues.
There was an excess inventory that's good in the short run for inflation, but very bad in the long run for inflation, which means giving you that macro. Diane, I'm still positioning my portfolio to prepare for a really volatile market. Okay. Well, I haven't seen anyone say that volatility is gone. Ben you're up.
Take us through the chart for this one. Fair enough. And I like what Jessica said about that approaching resistance and some earnings follow through. Because that's exactly what we're seeing here on Fastenal. Now you talk about a company that has the potential to face some supply chain challenges from tariff issues.
You know, once these companies that that Fastenal supplies, once they run through that peanut butter can of or jar of bolts and nuts, they're going to have to start resupplying. And that's where Fastenal is going to have to pass on some of those costs. But you take a look at what's going on with the stock post this earnings announcement a couple of weeks ago.
And you see that big strong move, some big green candles a lot of momentum to the upside. In fact that even accelerates the 200 period moving average higher. But now running into that resistance around the 82 mark. And you see about a week's worth of time in that uncertainty where there's that sideways up and down, we see almost alternating or piano keys type of candles here where it goes red, green, red, green, red, green.
And then now we're below that that 80 level of support. So the challenge is gaining some traction moving back up above the 82, which to be fair, if you go back into November that was a double top resistance. So we're banging our heads here with Fastenal up into an area of some available selling pressure. Once that's worked through, there's the possibility to move higher.
But the question is, I mean, the market liked what they said on the earnings announcement. Buyers are stepping in. We see a little bit of a bullish bias towards that RSI. A little bit of a bullish divergence. Can it break through this area of maybe oversupply or selling pressure. And if it can do it and it can do it fast, then we maybe see this move out to some new highs here Diane. All right.
Well that is a question that we don't have the answer to yet. But Jessica, you want to leave us with any final thoughts on Fastenal before we move on to your next trade? Yeah, they tend to gain market share during periods of uncertainty. Tariffs are certainly uncertainty. That's a positive. And on an earnings note manufacturing demand was soft but it was stable.
And that's what we're looking for from a macro view. And a micro view is stability. And so anything that has stability again low beta high dividend yield stock great to add to the portfolio. And my personal view to smooth out volatility overall. All right so let's talk about your next pick on your list.
You've got Costco on your shopping list I have to say I joined Costco recently for the first time. Don't ask me why I held out for so long. But I will say I was overwhelmed walking in there and only walked out with one thing my first time there. But tell us about your views on this one. Jessica. Yeah, I think I saw your thread on that actually. Diane.
So come with a list. But Costco, it has pricing power and it's a different type of experience. So the fact that you had a different experience in comparison to where you would normally get your groceries speaks to its unique membership and revenue based model that it has. There is a subscription model that's there.
There are loyal customer relationships, which helps it outperform its traditional retailers, and they're really focusing on e-commerce. So there's Costco next. There's a new partnership. Even with Uber in this day and age we like convenience. So lots of opportunity there from a pricing power standpoint, which is extremely helpful in this environment.
What we want to look at in a tariff or perhaps inflationary driven environment, and of course, that e-commerce lens as well is just a plus and icing on the cake. All right. Plus an icing on the cake, which there was I'm sure I saw a cake there. Huge cakes. I'm sure they're at Costco since everything is large there. But Ben, take us through what the chart looks like for Costco and what trends you're paying attention to here.
Yeah, I don't know if it's icing on the cake or mustard on the dollar 50 hot dog that's driving consumers to the to the stores. But again, it's the resiliency of their model that has been driving this upward performance in the price of the stock. So this is a nine month chart. This is generally if we were to expand this to a longer time frame, you're going to see the same type of trend.
The 200 period moving average has been very stable. It's kind of leveled off as we saw in that March time frame on the last earnings announcement, a bit of a break down below that diagonal uptrend line. It's trying struggling valiantly to regain that line. So I think what this resistance level that we see, which is now right about the $1,000 mark, big round number that may very well be a read on the resiliency of consumer spending, especially on their high end products like TVs and those types of things. But you
still see some RSI movement. So that relative strength index, giving you the idea that it's echoing what price movement is doing. Buyers are still gaining momentum. They're just having a hard time breaking above this previous resistance. It doesn't mean that the stock is moving lower yet. It would have to break down below around this 900 to maybe 875 range where you've got some support, but it neither is it making new highs yet.
So it's kind of in that middle zone here where it's struggling to break back up into kind of the upper quadrant of where it has been most bullish recently. Diane. Yeah, I just wonder if that is also just because of the simple fact that thousand dollar stocks are expensive. And when you get to four digit stocks, it's just really hard to break through.
And I know there's been talk recently about, you know, the potential for them to do a stock split. But Jessica, any final thoughts on Costco before we take a look at your final trade? Yeah, absolutely. It looks like some defensive plays are rotating out and it's coming into cyclical which boils down into earnings. So I would expect to see that softness.
And it all goes back to that overall ceiling of uncertainty that's on the broader market. That really shows positioning. All right let's talk about your final trade Berkshire Hathaway the class B shares. Take us through your views here Jessica. Yeah looking at the class B shares. So it's what I'm calling a smart broad market play because Berkshire Hathaway class A or B is not an ETF. It is.
It is a common stock. But Berkshire Hathaway has been up 16.9% year to date. It has outperformed the S&P 500 and a lot of sectors. And we're going into the famous shareholder meeting, which means we're going to hear a lot about Warren Buffett's views on the market. He has a lot of exposure to treasuries, insurance and a lot of other businesses.
But those treasuries are cash equivalent, and investors are going to want to know this out of the box indicator, if you will, as where that positioning is going to come into play. And I believe he's going to say sit and wait, as in that is still a movement, is we're not doing anything. As in, he wants to deploy that cash, but we need certainty to do that.
So it's going to be interesting to see his perspective as well. But treasuries, as volatile as they have become in the grand scheme in comparison to history, are still giving higher yields in comparison since we haven't seen since the great financial crisis. So having that type of exposure added to your portfolio, as well as some stock picking from Warren Buffett and team, I think is a great play to add to the longer term portfolio. Okay. All right.
So Ben, your turn. Take us through what you're paying attention to when it comes to the chart for Berkshire. For sure. And one of the big things to pay attention to is this resistance. At the 540 mark, you can see that from a price perspective, the stock has been running up into that 540 maybe as the top side of a bit of an ascending triangle.
It's pretty steep coming up off of a bounce off of the 200 period, which has been resilient as a level of support going up this line, but some movement trying to get through this. 540 that's been really the biggest challenge, the RSI falling off a little bit. One thing to think about, they've got an earnings announcement coming up over the horizon here next week.
But think about this. As investors have rotated into Brk.b as kind of that broad diversification. If tech leaders if new leaders emerge, this could be the piggy bank that gets rotated to take advantage of some of those tech leadership opportunities. So you could see some short term rotation back down, perhaps to that 200 period moving average.
So that resistance level may be indicating a point at which investors are willing to peel back some of this diversification, protection that they've been putting on, and look for some of those leadership opportunities where things have been beaten up significantly more so than this stock has been, Diane. All right. Great insight there.
And Jessica, final thoughts from you on either Berkshire or either of your other picks. Yeah, just the overall market I think I'm calling it the ceiling of uncertainty. I'm going to continue to say that until we have certainty, we're not going to see too many movements higher. So in my view, it's positioning with lower beta to smooth out the volatility, add some dividend yield.
And of course let's watch one of the biggest weeks that we have in earnings this week. Oh yeah huge week for earnings for members of the Mag seven reporting this week. Thank you Jessica. That's Jessica Inskip with
Made with ❤️ byGlasp

================================================================================
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YrOWOttv_8c
Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English (auto-generated)
[Music] Drug maker Fizer posting mixed results for their first quarter as it announced plans for 1.2 billion dollars in cost cutting efforts. Sales for the quarter came in just shy of expectations. Fizer reaffirming its outlook for the full year but noting it has not factored in any potential impact from terrorists.
Here to discuss what these results mean for the drug maker, we've got Vomal Devon. He is Guggenheim security senior research analyst and managing director. VML, great to have you on here. So Fizer cutting costs while continuing to struggle for growth opportunities. Where does that leave you on this name? Yeah, it's been a tough one.
We have a buy rating on it. We do like the name longer term. We think that the expectations are very low and so we do think there's upside over time, but it's been a struggle for sure. Last year they delivered very good commercial performance, beaten numbers pretty handily. Stock didn't really react well and now it's faced a lot of pressure more recently with all the concerns around tariffs and the longerterm outlook. We do still like it.
We think there's value in the pipeline. Uh we think over time they can deliver upside to where current expectations are, but it's not going to happen today. I think today is pretty much like you mentioned a mixed quarter. It's just more costcut driven sort of upside uh and nothing to get people too excited about anything really changing in the near term.
It's still going to take some time. How does that potential tariff headwind kind of widen your forecast uh range as you're looking through what potentially could be incurred by Fizer and and the rest of the industry and how that would radically or materially at least change some of the expectations for their financial performance.
Yeah. So it's a it's obviously challenging for everyone right now to sort of predict the future. I think there's two sides where we see the potential risk. One would be on the actual COGS line, the expenses, paying for the tariffs. And then the other thing for a lot of these multinational pharmaceutical companies would be on the tax side.
Uh if there's changes to how they do their how they can utilize transfer pricing and lower some of their taxes based on their manufacturing and intellectual property being outside the United States. So Fiser see they have a 15% tax rate. I think it's not unrealistic to think that's going to go up over the next couple years maybe to 17 18%.
we see what we'll see what happens in terms of actual policy, but that's where we see the two biggest risks. So, multinational farmer companies like this see their cogs go up and then if your tax rates below the 21% rate right now, there's a pretty good chance that's going to go up in the next couple years as well. And regarding tariff policy and just uncertainty, obviously Fiser maintaining the 2025 outlook here.
To what extent do you have faith in its ability to bear fruit on that? Yeah, I think ultimately for all of these companies, it is about innovation and it's about the pipeline and driving that long-term growth. Even before all the tariff uh you know concerns started the the main concern that is that a lot of their core products are losing patent production and other ones are facing other challenges over the next few years and the pipeline needs to deliver that again is what's core to our thesis.
We do think they have some exciting things in the pipeline in the oncology space, some in the obesity metabolism space. Uh so those products are going to need to deliver. Last year we saw some of that. Uh we're going to see some more in the coming months here with some data releases. Those come through.
Again, we know the sales for the next couple years are not going to show significant growth. Uh that's the fact at this point, but this is a long-term business. Uh you start delivering on the pipeline, people are getting more optimistic on what it's going to look like in 2028, 2029, 30. And that's where I think the stock can start working maybe later this year into next year.
VMO, good to have you here with us today. Thanks so much for taking the time.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp