Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English (auto-generated)
What's up, YouTube? Listen, family. I have an important video for you guys today. Jumping right into it. Your paychecks will be garnished for student loans beginning May 5th. Okay, May 5th is upon us in about a handful of days now. So, I'm breaking this now so that you guys can kind of be aware of what's to come. Quick question though, guys.
question coach got for you guys. Should everyone have to pay back their student loans? Why or why not? Should everyone have to pay back their student loans? Why or why not? Guys, I want to hear your thoughts on this and then I want to give you guys some guidance and some things I want you to know and how to navigate. Okay? Let me know.
Should everyone be required to pay back their student loan? Why or why not? Then let me know if you have student loans yourself, okay? We don't want just people speaking on a situation and you not even feeling any ramifications of having student loans cuz maybe you didn't go to college or maybe you you don't have loans or whatever.
Let me know if you have loans or not and your rationale for your situation. Okay? Let's keep it all the way authentic. All right? But do me a favor, guys. May 5th will be here before we know it. and they're gonna turn the faucet back on and so automatically it's just going to rev back up.
How many of you guys over the past, let's say, four years have took advantage of them being paused? Let me know that. Did anybody start driving for Uber, doing Door Dash, picking up any side hustles, or doing anything extra to kind of offset what's to come. Let me know how you were navigating. Okay, let me know if any of you paid off your student loans and you just said, "Man, I ain't dealing with this.
I'm getting this out the way. I'm on my financial journey right now and I ain't dealing with no type of loans and nothing that can hold me down and serve as baggage. I want that up off me." Let me know if that was the route you took. Or third, and finally, let me know if you say, "I'm not paying them back. My job don't pay enough.
the thing I went to school for, I ain't even working in that field. I don't have time or the means or the resources to pay it off. And I don't have no help. I don't have no family. I don't have no significant other. Therefore, it ain't getting paid off. Screw my credit. Screw what may happen. I'll just deal with the consequence. Let me know if that's where you fall.
Okay? Because man, the thing about the human race, we're nuanced people. And as a being, you are all wired differently. Okay? And so there's no right or wrong. You entitled to feel how you feel. Okay? But let me know. Should everyone have to pay back their student loans? Why or why not? Okay. Now, check this out.
Coach got this article for you. I'm going to read it to you because you guys might can't see it. What student loan borrowers need to know about involuntary collections. Okay. So, in an op-ed that was printed on Monday, the Secretary of Education, Linda McMahon, explained the education department's decision to resume involuntary collections of federal student loans that are in default.
Okay? So, if you in default, they coming. They come knocking on your door, they going to turn the faucet back on you. You going to see the money come out your account. Okay? Within weeks, borrowers should contact the government default resolution group to make a monthly payment, enroll in an incomedriven repayment plan, or sign up for loan rehabilitation.
So, them are some of the options you have to choose from if you do want to rectify the student loan situation. Okay? Borrowers who remain in default may eventually have their wages automatically garnished. Okay, what do you feel about having your wages garnished if you really and truly don't have the ability to pay? Let me know your thoughts on that.
Okay, share this with somebody that might need this today, guys. Okay, make sure you like and subscribe for me. What are your thoughts on having your wages garnished beginning May 5th if you are unable to pay your student loan back because you're in default? Okay, you're already struggling. Inflation is already high. Eggs is already $7.
Gas is already through the roof. If it hasn't been enough weight on you already, now they're talking about potentially garnishing your wages. Let me know how you feel and what the ramifications for you would be if something like that was to take place. Okay? See, check it out, guys. You have some options. Okay? Before they can just garnish your wage, you need to make sure you talk to your lender.
Okay? Don't ignore the phone call. Don't ignore the mail. Don't ignore the prompts. Pick up the phone, answer the phone, and have a conversation. What I noticed, guys, in all of these things when it comes to anything dealing with credit cards, student loans, anything in that realm, okay? If you just have a simple conversation, there are things you can work out that's in your favor that also appeases the person on the receiving end.
Okay? In this particular case, the federal government and the student loan department. Okay? And so, number one, don't run from accountability. Okay? Answer that phone or pick up the phone and call and get ahead of it or put some things in place. Okay? Two, if you can't see why what we do around here when we're talking about financial education, financial literacy, if you can't see the importance of that now more than ever, guys, this is one of those reasons.
This is one of those wakeup calls. No one is coming to save you. No one is coming to save you. That's why I need you to learn how to invest, trade, in order to build wealth in the stock market. I need you to really pick up what coach is putting down because some of what you learn, some of the life-changing things we do around here, some of that could have been geared towards coach, you help me pay off my student loan.
I done help people pay off their houses, pay for college, get out of debt, do all these wonderful things in life. But you know what? student loans is the same thing that that money could have been applied towards as well. Other debts you got, mortgage, leases, uh time shares, anything that you need, you can use proper trading to help you get up out of that that rut you might be in. Okay? Get from up under that rock.
All right? So, check it out, man. The borrowers need to know you have some power in this. You don't have to just lay down and lay idle and just let them come running rampid and garnishing your wages. Okay? You can you can take some necessary steps as well. So I want that to be first things first.
Secondly, in addition to you picking up the phone or you answering the phone and not running from accountability and then you establishing your own investments, your own means and ways of paying back what you may owe, okay? Or getting the the the the amount reduced, whatever it may be. The next thing you want to do is to make sure this doesn't generate a situation that disrupts your current livelihood and well-being.
Guys, it's important that you have resources around you. Whether that's people, whether that's access to services, whether that's something that can make sure you and your kids are able to stay afloat. What I want is to drive you and serve as a burning motivation that you don't let yourself get in this situation again.
Okay? I often say if you give them the power to feed you, you give them the power to starve you. Okay? And this is one of those things where the roose is coming back to hatch in terms of now they want to collect student loan payments. Okay? Now they want to garnish your wages. Guys, you have to get out in front of these things.
You have to be thinking about these things on the front end. Like, you know what? How about I just go to community college? How about I go to school for two years, keep my expenses low, get a trade, jump right into the workforce, do maybe the non-traditional route, which going to end up turning into the traditional route with the way the world has going and the way college enrollment is dropping because too many people are not benefiting from their degree, what they went to school for.
only thing they got to show is they got a lot of student loan debt. Okay? And so that's a whole another discussion, but we got to talk about those things because check it out. I am a proponent of education. I think it's the way you grow your mind. I think it's the way that you increase your independence and I think you develop a network that you can't find in any other medium in life than you do by going to college. Okay.
However, you got to know what the major in. I got I know cats that just to sound cool, they say they major in engineering and don't know nothing about engineering. So then they flunk out. They just wanted to sound good at Thanksgiving and on Christmas break. I know cast is talking about they majoring in business. Ain't never sold nothing. Ain't never started a business.
Don't know the first thing about business. But it sounds good to say, "Oh, I'm going to school for business. I'm going to school for business management. I'm going to school for business leadership." You don't know what none of that stuff is. You don't even know what to do. So, I see people use education in the wrong way, more as a flex versus going for something that going to render them the job that they actually want, the career that they're actually going to work in or something that they can even get through school
with. Okay? People many times make that mistake. Okay? Let me know if you were one of those ones. Okay? Or if you avoided that. But the point being is this guys, May 5th is the day, okay? Be on guard. Look out for anything to come in the mail. Look for any 1-800 number. Don't get scammed now.
You got to make sure you do your due diligence, okay? But answer that call or pick up the phone and call and get your affairs in order, okay? Because the last thing we want is your wages garnished and then it upsets the apple cart and then your life begins to fall apart and then more chaos ensues. Okay, that ain't what we want.
So stay on top of that for me guys. But understand this, the way out of all of this is to learning to take care of your affairs and take control of what you can control. Take care of your finances. Okay, the stock market and investing is the greatest vehicle for wealth creation. You have to play the right game in order to get out ahead because the way the system is designed and set up is not benefit or it's not intended for you to win.
And on top of that, nobody's coming to save you. So, it's all about what are you going to do? And that's why I show up every single day for you guys. strangely hell or snow to make sure you're hearing from somebody that actually cares, that actually want to see you win, but that actually want to see you figure this thing out.
But I'm here to help you navigate whatever those things may be. Okay, listen. Coach, get up out of here. It's been a good one, man. If you made money today, let me know down in the comments below. If you got student loans, let me know. But also, let me know if you feel like everyone should be required to pay them back.
Why or why not? Okay, but we make videos like this every day. So, if you like this one, make sure you check out the next one. Remember, mostly the end result if you consider the journey. Do me a favor. Don't forget to like, subscribe to the channel. Make sure you guys grab some free stocks using my link below.
And I'll catch you guys in the next one. Peace.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp