Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English - CC1
English (auto-generated)
trade 360. Time now for our 360 round. We're taking a look at General Motors off the back of its latest earnings. And of course we have to have the conversation about tariffs as it relates to the auto industry. For that I want to bring in our panel. We've got Karl Brauer executive Analyst, Iseecars.com, and Garrett Nelson senior equity analyst and VP at Cfra research.
Thank you both for joining us today. Carl, I want to start out with you in terms of some of your takeaways from the numbers today. They beat on the top and bottom line. We expect that going forward. You said the Q1 numbers are going to look good for GM because they're based on pre tariff costs and pull forward effects on tariffs had on sales.
Is that essentially still your view Carl. Yeah I believe that's exactly what happened. They were able to maximize the first quarter pretty well. I know they had some problems down in Mexico with one of their plants, but generally speaking they sold a lot of vehicles and they didn't have a lot of unexpected or unknown cost incursions that both of which they're looking at going forward with much less certainty. Both sales and costs.
And then, Garrett, I want to ask you what stood out. Adjusted EPs two. 78 revenue. Top $44 billion. Again, this is the trailing quarter. You've got a hold rating on GM. What were your takeaways first from these results Garrett. Sure. Takeaway was it was another solid quarter for GM. As Carl mentioned it was Pre-tariff though the you know big tariffs kicked in April 2nd.
GM has significant excess production in both Mexico and Canada. So you know they've suspended their guidance for now. And I think it remains to be seen whether they put out revised guidance on Thursday when their call is now. They postpone the conference call by two days. I think given the pending news regarding possible remediation in the tariffs here that might be in the works, there could be an announcement soon.
But I think, you know, another solid quarter of execution, strong sales there. They're actually picking up pretty significant market share in the US, which they've been doing over the last few years. So all in all, I think it was a better than expected release. But I think everyone is waiting to see what the revised 2025 earnings guidance is going to look like.
If there is any given. You make a great point about that, Garrett. So, Carl, look to Garrett's point. The CFO said, quote, we believe the future impacts of tariffs could be significant. So we are reassessing our guidance and look forward to sharing more when we have greater clarity. We may get some clarity soon, because the Trump administration has had some talks about softening the impact of these auto tariffs.
Carl, I'm curious to know what your overall outlook is for the auto industry. You know, it's so hard to predict right now for all the reasons that we've been talking about, we really need to kind of finalize what the long term set tariffs are going to be. And until that happens, it's almost impossible to have any kind of confident outlook for how each company is going to do, how each product's going to do and what 2025 and beyond is going to look like.
And I think Trump knows this. I think the administration knows this. So there's an effort to get there and to finalize these things. He's he's business savvy enough to know that you can't have complete disruption and unknowns at this level and operate effectively as any kind of company. And, you know, car companies, they have such a long time horizon, product planning and supplier bases and distribution.
Everything is based on long term planning, and I don't know how any of them can do any of that right now. Speaking of the Trump administration, President Trump set to be in Michigan today. Garrett, what are you are you looking to hear anything as it relates to tariffs or in particular, the plans to shore up manufacturing and bring back more of the production to the US? Yeah, I mean, I think it's anyone's guess.
I'd be a little surprised if he made a big announcement at this rally, but it clearly there are there are discussions in the works and the administration is working on something to soften the impact of the tariffs. And I think that's good news for GM. The shares have been hit very hard ever since all this tariff talk started a few months ago.
And so I think as investors gain a little more comfort as as far as the 2025 earnings, what those look like for GM, I think you have a strong possibility of a relief rally here. Our best guess is that their adjusted EPs guidance, the new guidance will be somewhere in the range of 9 to $10. The guidance they just suspended for this year was 11 to $12.
And of course they earned $10.60 last year. So it'd be a, you know, pretty modest decline from from what they earned last year. But their CFO this morning said that they continue to believe they can offset 30 to 50% of the impact of the North American tariffs. So I don't think it's actually going to be as bad as some investors are fearing.
We've seen this with a lot of other stocks and companies where there have been significant tariff fears. And when those get when investors get a little more comfort surrounding the numbers oftentimes. Okay. Well, you make a great point. Remains to be seen what the new levels will be, especially as it relates to auto tariffs.
But so far it's been a different year in terms of stock performance year to date. Ford versus GM. Last year it was GM was the Outperformer. This year Ford is. We'll have to leave our conversation there today. Thank you so much. We've got Karl Brauer executive analyst, I
Made with ❤️ byGlasp