Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English - CC1
English (auto-generated)
Welcome back to next gen investing. It is time for under 30. And joining us now is Jeff Pierce in place of George Tillis to help us discuss SoFi here now post earnings. Jeff good to see you again man. What is the takeaway here in SoFi. You had us all excited going into this report. And it looks like you were on to the right the right track here as we got green on the screen for SoFi shares.
Well, as you mentioned yesterday, there's a lot of, you know, SoFi investors that are very loyal out there today. I think they're very happy with what they saw. We saw better than expected results. Profitability on a GAAP basis for the sixth quarter in a row, strength across all segments, financial services in particula, shined over 100% growth there.
And of course, they raised their guidance. As we dig into the numbers, earnings were $0.06 versus the $0.04 expected revenue up 33% at 771 million. That's the highest growth rate in five quarters adjusted EBITDA up 46%. The company also brought in 800,000 new customers, bringing their total to over 10.
9 million, up 34% year over year. If we look at the fee based revenue, very important area that they're focusing on grew 67% to a record 315 million, showing a lot of growth beyond just the interest income. Financial services up 100%. As I mentioned, technology platform segment grew about 10% and the loan business total originated loans reached 7.
2 billion this year, with about 1.6 billion originating in the first quarter. A lot of good numbers coming out of the loan side. And finally that outlook, they raised net revenue expectations for 2025 to 3.23 5 to 3.31 billion, up from their prior prior outlook. Okay, so I mean, I think that the fact that they were able to not only give guidance but give guidance stronger than had been anticipated is again, I know I've said this a few times on this show today because we keep talking these companies that have had better than expected
guide, but it's just such a refreshing tone shift from so much of the doom and gloom we've looked at lately. But other than, I mean, the strong guidance, strong report, are we seeing signs of some respect amongst the sell side here? Because I did see some several analysts today being like, hey, this is a formidable competitor in the financial world right now that perhaps we haven't been giving enough credit to so far.
And some of these phenomenal growth metrics, I think absolutely are. And from the reaction from the street here, I mean, it reached around $14.50 this morning, obviously has come back a little bit, but I think we could have seen a bigger reaction had the stock not been doing so well over the last month.
To your point, on the sell side, are we seeing some respect? I think so yesterday you asked if the competition was really just among the smaller fintech names or if they were going, you know, attempting to go against some of the big bank names. The CEO even said that he envisions the SoFi becoming one of the top ten financial institutions in the US, based on market cap.
Currently, there are about 14.6 billion. But they're really making, you know, making waves in terms of kind of their cross selling, getting away from just interest income. And, you know, the big question mark, I think, has been whether or not the macro picture is going to be helpful or hurt them right now, whether or not student loans coming back would overshadow any pain from the macro side of things.
And at least from this report, I think we're seeing that it's almost business as usual, if not better. Yeah, Jeff, I saw the CEO, Anthony Noto, was speaking to Bloomberg at about 10 a.m. Central time, and some of the takeaways from that that I thought were interesting is they actually describe a regulatory environment that they find more favorable, that allows for more products.
That's such a different tone than what headlines are kind of, you know, really firing with all the tariff uncertainty. But then also they talked about their typical consumer or customer being a household income of over 150,000. I think we so much have pigeonholed so far into this young kind of maybe recently graduated college post-college, you know, entry level worker doesn't sound like that.
They don't they don't see it that way. And they kind of see this as the one stop shop for the affluent, the young affluent. That's how Bloomberg positions it. Final thoughts before we say goodbye. I would agree with that. I mean, I think when you think of SoFi, you think of kind of the original basis of someone putting something in a shopping cart, trying to figure out whether or not they want to do this as a loan based product.
Now, when you look at some of these loan numbers, personal loans at 5.5 billion, home loans up 54% at 518 million. Student loan originating. Of course, the original business up 59%. I think what we're seeing here is this is becoming more and more of a household name kind of loan business across all different, you know, types of individuals.
So that's good news for this company. And it shows potential for growth, no doubt about it. Yeah. And even the health of some of their credit that they get lend obviously to consumers is frankly so impressive. So I think this has been such a fun
Made with ❤️ byGlasp