Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
[Applause] For more news and movers, Diane King Hall, host of Morning Movers, is with us now. And we've had breaking news pertaining to the White House and Amazon and a tariff cost report. Yeah, this is true. Uh White House saying that uh Amazon's decision to show the cost including the price of tariffs.
They consider it a hostile and political act. So you are seeing shares of Amazon under some pressure right now. Uh we had originally heard from Punch Bowl news that Amazon would start displaying the cost of an item as it relates to tariffs. That follows moves that we've seen recently from Shien uh raising its prices and T-Mu although Teimu you don't find out that until you get towards the actual uh close to the end process of purchasing an item.
So it matches those moves that we've seen there. And keep in mind, shares of Amazon have been under pressure this year and uh f fell under more pressure following uh the news of the tariffs at the beginning of this month. Uh year to date before today down about 15% for the year. Not the worst performer in the MAG 7 uh but certainly has been a difficult landscape for Amazon this year.
And part of the concern is the impact of tariffs to the company especially as it relates to obviously the e-commerce side of its business. a chunk of its seller um are from they're based in China. Uh US sellers do make up a significant portion of sellers in the US, but many of those goods are sourced from China. So there is risk when you think about those heavy 145% tariffs from the US.
It'll be interesting to see. I mean I I would be interested to see what the tariff cost is. I mean I there's no way to know if it's exactly correct because these tariffs are not necessarily solidified and they are ever changing and being negotiated right now. So I'm not sure that the numbers they're printing are exactly correct.
China would be because we know there's no pause there. I mean you know I mean essentially as we know where we are between the US and China that is something that is you know where we're it sounds like there are some talks but at least we're seeing the impact for instance with uh team move. So it sounds like Amazon is going to follow the same playbook.
I did just try to you know add a couple things to my cart to see if you see the impact yet. I didn't see the impact yet. So maybe that's coming. Um, but hopefully we get to some kind of solution so we don't have to deal with that. I mean, we're still as of yesterday at 145%. Uh, for China and you know, I guess you could pick something else from somewhere else.
I mean, if you want a cup, it doesn't have to come from China. You could get your Vietnam from somewhere else and maybe pay a lower price. Um, it'll be interesting. But I see where um Caroline Levit, press secretary, by the media reports, has reportedly said that this is a hostile and political act. Amazon is the lagard in the um Dow Jones Industrial Average down 1.5% right now. So there's that.
And then we have the news that we've been following. Novo Nordisk and HIMS on the news. Yeah. leading to a huge rally for Hems and Hers uh off of this news that Noval Nord is partnering with Hems and Hers along with a couple other providers Row and Life MD to offer WGO to these teleaalth platforms partnering with them to uh allow for the supply to continue there.
You're seeing him and her sore more than 20% right now. In the pre-market it had surged more than 30%. uh Noval Nordis uh ticking a little bit higher but a re really the big winner here is him and hers uh it allows for the compounding pharmacies to still have these offerings because you'll remember they were offering compounded versions of the wagi zal major of the world when there was short supply now recently the FDA has taken them off of being in short supply and that had caused a heavy hit for instance to him and hers when that happened. uh but now this uh gives them
a path forward with regard to these offerings and people like these teleaalth options. So Novo Nordis has been a big winner in this space. Uh under this uh direct to consumer the pricing would be $499 per month uh for this is if people are paying their self-paying uh customers. So that's a significant uh significantly less than what the normal price is for WGO which is more than a,000 more than $1,300 uh for you know each of the uh say a one month supply of the item.
Uh they do Hampton Hers does also have this bundled packaging and that would be $599 a month and that's access to you know uh different membership offerings that come through that. So what it does again is gives hims and hers now a path forward when it comes to the supplies because you'll recall that the stock took a heavy hit when the compounders were not going to be able to offer this now.
Yeah, that's right. So big move there 20 almost 28% for him today. The Amazon news keeps coming out. Caroline Levit reportedly saying like why didn't Amazon do this when the Biden administration hiked inflation to the highest levels in 40 years and show those costs and the change in costs.
But that's going to be a battle between the White House and Amazon and we'll hear from Amazon on Thursday because we'll get the earnings. So it'll be interesting to see if they make any comments pertaining to this. SoFi also on your radar, Diane. Yeah, look uh SoFi doing better than expected on a variety of metrics, Nicole. They beat on both the top and bottom line adjusted. EPS was 6 cents a share.
Street was looking for 4 cents for SoFi. On revenue, they earned more than 770 million 770.72 million to be precise. So that was better than expected. They saw uh they had strength just across segments whether we're talking about total loan originations uh that reached 7.2 billion. Home loan originations increased 54%. Feebased revenue grew 67%.
It was a record for that segment, 315 million uh dollars. We know that a part of SoFi's bread and butter had been student loan refinancing. They have had growth in that area. You saw significant growth there, more than 50% as well there. They've increased their outlook off the back of this. So just firing on all cylinders for SoFi.
Their guidance for 2025 earnings now to come in between 27 and 28 cents a share. That's above their prior guidance which was 25 to 27 cents. For Q2 they're expecting uh GAP EPS to be between 5 and 6 cents. Uh adjusted revenue, they're expecting that to come in between 785 million to 85 million. So really firing on all cylinders for SoFi.
one of the few names reporting guidance and boosting that number. That's unusual in this environ. We're hearing more about layoffs and uncertainty and withdrawn guidance. Absolutely. It's such a different playbook than so far what we're hearing this cycle and all of the tariff uncertainty and the headwinds there are causing so many companies to either uh pull guidance to say we can't give you guidance uh for the full year or you know offer different caveats such as say UPS uh with regard to guidance or offer two different scenarios uh such as
United Airlines did but to beat and race we haven't seen that really I mean that's not the pattern this cycle. And last but not least, we look at Brinker. Um, Chili is under that umbrella. There was a lot of excitement about Chili and all their fancy uh margaritas that were really geared towards a holiday or young folks or cheap six bucks.
Uh, but it wasn't enough. No, it wasn't enough to please investors. And look, they did actually beat expectations uh on the quarter uh on the trailing quarter and their guidance actually uh looked pretty good overall. Uh now revenue was a little bit weak in terms of guidance. Uh so what their project or excuse me their trailing quarter they earned 266 a share.
That was better than expected. Revenue came in at 1.43 billion. Also better than expected. They had strong comps. Chili's uh you had overall increase and 31% uh increase in same store sales for Chili's. You saw more than 20% increase in traffic there. So you saw growth there. U Majanos, you saw a slight increase there. Nowhere near the same level as Chili's just up 4/10en of a percent.
Chili's is really obviously the standout here in terms of their projection. They're guiding for uh EPS of between 850 to 875 for fiscal year 2025. Consensus is 847. Uh they're guiding for revenue for 2025 between 5.33 to 5.35 billion. Consensus is around five and a quarter. So kind of in the midpoint. I'll add in Sherwin Williams which gave guidance maintain the guidance but a great performance today up 4.
3% after its quarterly numbers. They did say some choppy demand. Thank you Diane King Hall covering a lot of the names there. I added Sherwin Williams folks because that is the leader in the Dow Jones Industrial Average along with Honeywell. Both of those names are each up more than 4% helping to give the Dow a boost of 134 points today while the S&P 500 is lower.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp