Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English - CC1
English (auto-generated)
Welcome back to the Watch List. We bring in our panel to talk about consumer confidence. Brian Jacobsen is with us, chief economist at Onex Wealth Management, and Art Laffer, president of Laffer Tengler Investments. Good to see you both. Thank you so much for being here. Art, I'll ask you first.
I mean, the consumer numbers come in. The sentiment comes in dropping again. It's the fourth month in a row here, in fact, now going near the lowest level since 2022. At the same time, you know, there are bright spots. So what do you make of it? The consumer is front ending the tariffs. And it's kind of like if you remember cash for clunkers government policies have consequences.
And the consequences in this case is that the consumer is trying to get ahead of the tariff increases, which are due in April. It's not surprising. It's pretty typical. And interesting thing is you're going to see the you see the trade deficit spiked in the first quarter a lot, and you're going to see the inventory numbers show up in the second quarter.
So you're going to see a big downturn I think in GDP in first and then the offset in the second quarter. Brian, are you worried. Well I'm probably not quite as worried as what consumers in general are when you look at those consumer confidence numbers, because we can break it out between the present situation versus expectations.
And it's really that expectations component that has been pushed off of a cliff here. I think that a lot of people are very worried and rightfully so, oftentimes about what's going to happen. I think I might just have a little bit more constructive view about how quickly some deals might be negotiated, and the extent to which the market has already priced in the possibility of a recession.
If we think back on April 9th, the market was effectively pricing in the certainty of recession, and now it's just moved to almost like a coin flip. And I think that there's enough underlying economic momentum where we can still get through this without necessarily having a recession. Understood. Art, where do we go from here? I mean, what could change the picture here, if any, in a realistic way? Because I'm sure you have a base case and then maybe what could happen? Yeah.
I mean, I think the thing that could happen that would make things at least a story change a lot faster for the for the better would be to cut a deal at worst case with Europe, try to get the whole U.S, because that's obviously a very large bloc if we can resolve the China. I don't I don't think this administration is going to cut them back down to where they were.
I think that's kind of out the door. But if we can get better deals with some of the bigger blocs and get resolution which which is what the consumer is looking for, they're looking for certainty. It's not just the consumer. Manufacturers and suppliers are looking for the same type of information. So getting some kind of resolution, even if it's not perfect, right.
And you know, Brian, maybe what kind of opportunities does this mean for investors if any? Well, yeah, I think that the opportunities here are really to continue to focus on that bottom up analysis. And it's almost become somewhat cliched to say that it's become like a stock pickers market. It seems like we say that all the time.
But in this type of environment, there are important distinctions to be made between companies as far as their supply chains, who their final consumers are. And I think that's really what we're focusing on here are what are those companies that are profitable and if anything, might be able to gain market share in this type of environment where competitors costs might be rising faster than their costs are.
And at this point now, what kind of investments would you make, Brian, when you're talking about the opportunities that could, you know, you're doing the analysis, bottom up analysis, what kind of sectors or stocks? I had two guests today who already said the bottom is in. I don't know. I don't know, but I mean, what kind of things would you be buying now? Sure.
Well, I do think that maybe the bottom is in where on on April 9th, the market pricing in the certainty of a recession. Because we do know that markets are forward looking. So even these confidence surveys they're supposed to be forward looking, but in fact they tend to be more coincident with the economic cycle.
And so if the market is anticipating that we're going to get a slowdown, it's quite likely that the reality isn't going to be as bad as what's being priced in or as feared. So I think, you know, broad based diversification could work here. But we're focused more on some, like ETFs, for example, that focus on profitable companies trading at valuations that are slightly lower than their peers.
So something very simple like that. If you're looking for some broad based exposure when it's getting into the stock by stock, it's looking at areas like industrials, financials and even some of the health care areas. So those are some of the like maybe three of the sectors that we would call out on our investment committee for where to do some of that fishing.
Right. I mean what do you think? What do you tell investors here today? To be calm and try to do smart things like buy good quality, high quality companies, focus on fundamentals, don't try to market time that invariably that doesn't work well. And especially especially don't try to get in and out of the market.
I've seen a lot of that people talking about, you know, trying to liquidate their portfolios. They just get so overwhelmed by the by the bad messages, you know, kind of across the spectrum of stuff. They read that they tend to panic. And that's usually the worst thing that you could do. Stick with managers that know how to pick stocks, pick investments, and use a disciplined process.
All right. Well it's great to see you both. Thank you both so much. Art
Made with ❤️ byGlasp