Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
[Music] Good morning everyone and welcome to the daily trader with Kevin Hinks. I have two paper money trades for you today on two highprofile names. We'll look at Tesla that's in the news all the time. Something we should always be checking on. And then we'll look at Starbucks that has earnings coming out well after the bell today.
So before the open tomorrow morning. So we'll look at those two. Let's get to our first trade of the day and that is Tesla. Now the chart on Tesla is kind of interesting because it looks like this 29166 is that 200 day moving average and kind of a key level here in Tesla. So we're watching for any break through that 291 level and a close there for a confirmation if you watch or uh adhere to technical analysis.
So the trade we looked at here was going out two weeks to the May 16th expiration, buying the 280 call and then going to this week May 2nd expiration and selling the 300 call. Why did we do that? Well, we wanted to give ourselves a little more duration since we are post uh event earnings event and implied volatility has come down.
So, we're moving out our dates ever so slightly. And they expect a move for this week about $19.90. So, right around that $20 level. So, buying the 280 in May 16th, selling the 300 in May 2nd. The debit on that was about 1520. The stock's moving a lot. It's about 1540 now. Tesla's moving a lot today as our or all stocks, frankly.
So the risk on the trade is the debit paid. The target on this trade is that short strike of $300. And one adder, you will get a chance because this is a twoe spread, you will get a chance to extend duration into that May 9th expiration if you choose to. If you get a move up towards the 300 level, of course, the first choice is to close the trade if the market allows you to do that.
So, uh, again, the risk on this trade is the debit paid and the target on this trade up towards that $300 level. This is one way a trader can look at this name. All right. Now, let's look at our second one, and that is Starbucks. Now, Starbucks has earnings coming out. I'll confirm exactly when it is. I believe it is after the bell today or tomorrow morning.
It is tomorrow morning before the open, but you have to have the trade in by the end of the day today. So, tomorrow morning before the open. The trade we're looking at here in Starbucks is something very similar. Buying the May 16th, selling the May 2nd. In this case, looking at the expected move about $6 and change.
We're gonna buy the 84 call in the May 16th and then sell this week's the earnings event uh 90 call right in line with that expected move. The debit about 285 is trading about 280 now. So about a nickel lower than we put it in. But again the risk on this trade is the debit paid. If it's 285 or it's 280 around that uh level that is the risk on this trade.
The target is that 300 level in line with the expected move. One last thing, you are buying a 56 implied volatility and selling a 100 volatility. Buying the lower, selling the higher. A call diagonal in Starbucks. Remember this stock has been quite beat up lately. What last month down 14%, three months down 16%. So, CEO Brian Nickel, let's see if he's got that turnaround coming in Starbucks again, uh, two trades, same dates, May 16th, selling May 2nd. Two call diagonals.
The risk on both trades is the debit paid. The target on both trades is the short strike. That is $300 on Tesla and $90 on Starbucks. This is something a trader might consider. That's our show for today everyone. We'll see you tomorrow with another edition of the Daily Trader. [Music]
Made with ❤️ byGlasp