Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English (auto-generated)
Has the selling gone far enough? Now might be a really good time to think about getting in. Markets may be down, but the door is wide open for some once-ina-lifetime buy opportunities on some of the strongest names out there. They have a portfolio of brands that consumers tend to be very brand loyal towards.
Market Beats Chris Marott shares three stocks on his list of generational buy opportunities. There's a really good compelling story for why you can hide out in this stock right now. collect a nice dividend while you wait for the stock to turn around. The kind of set it and forget it powerhouse companies that usually only offer slow and steady growth, but now offer some real growth for new investors.
They believe that there's almost 30% upside to the stock right now. A rare opportunity with some strong companies. Could these be the stocks that define your future? Let's dive in. Chris, so great to have you back on the show again today talking about this once in a generation buying opportunity for investors. That's a pretty big claim.
So, I want you to go through kind of how you came up with this list of three stocks. I know that some investors are really tired of hearing, you know, once in a generation opportunities, buying the dip, all that stuff. But I use some very specific criteria using the market bait beat stock screener to find stocks that are really presenting great buying opportunities that you might even say are once in a generation opportunities.
And the specific criteria were all the stocks we're going to be talking about on this video, they have forward pees that are at least 50% of the S&P 500 average. So, we're probably talking about uh forward PE ratios of no higher than 14 or maybe 15 times earnings at best. Uh they all have attractive dividend yields of at least 2% and they they were all trading near 52- week lows.
I think in all these cases, we're looking at um RSIs that are probably below 40. So, that's suggesting that the stock is in that oversold range. Interesting. So that's why uh with those parameters in mind, this list has some things in common, but they are kind of unique stocks. What they have in common is the opportunity, right? So let's dive into the list.
Starting with the first stock that's a great kind of generational buying opportunity, right? So the stock here is Chevron. Ticker symbol is CVX. Um many investors are familiar with this. We're talking about a big integrated oil company in the likes of Exxon and and Accidental. Chevron has been doing not much of anything over the past couple of years from a stock price growth perspective.
In fact, a lot of investors would say it's been dead money. But the one thing about Chevron is Chevron is one of the best companies in this sector in terms of providing shareholder value. It's got a a balance sheet that people would say is a fortress balance sheet that generates a lot of cash, especially free cash flow.
Um, what's been holding the stock back recently has been its prolonged merger with Hess, which was supposed to go through last year, but now won't be going through till probably the end of this year. However, it still appears that that merger is going to go through. So, I think that right now Chevron may not be doing much from a stock price growth perspective, but I think that's going to change by the end of the year.
I think another thing about this company is it's been around for a very long time historically. Has this continued to be a strong performer even though it's not seen the kind of uh tremendous growth. Is it always a strong performer kind of whatever is going on in the economy? Yeah, and again I think that that depends on how you define performance.
I mean obviously with the price of oil being suppressed a little bit that's going to weigh on these oil stocks. But something that investors need to realize is this is where quality matters. Chevron's a company, again I mentioned the Fortress balance sheet. This company's set up to do well even if oil were to linger and meander around in the $50 range.
They're going to be just fine. And when you're getting a a 5% dividend yield on this on the stock, the there's a really good compelling story for why you can hide out in this stock right now, collect a nice dividend while you wait for the stock to turn around and just, you know, and just basically it's a set it and forget it stock.
Let's look at some of the the charts and what analysts are saying for Chevron right now. Where do analysts expect it to go if it's already kind of trading toward that 52- week low right now? Analysts believe that it's going to be uh has about an 18% upside right now. That's the consensus. When you look at the analyst forecast on Market Beat, they're looking at a price of $168 or $165, excuse me.
And it's trading right now at just under $140. So that's a nice 18% potential gain. And that go again that goes along with that dividend that like I said it's got a dividend yield right now this morning as we tape it's around 4.8%. But another key with that dividend is your annual payout per share is $6.84.
So that's a that's a very nice payout for investors. the stock comes is the stock does a generous stock buyback program and like I said the merger with Hess is still likely to be completed by the end of this year and that's probably going to be the one reason why investors can count on that catalyst for stock price growth even if oil prices don't necessarily get back up into that $70 range or even $80 range.
I know you've been making a case for this stock this whole time, but I want to end each of these stock picks. Sure. With why this is a generational opportunity. How could this impact your portfolio uh years and decades down the road? Like I said, it's basically been kind of dead money for the last couple years.
So, if you look at the stock chart, um it hasn't done it hasn't done a whole lot over the last three years. So, right now you're getting you're you're getting a chance to buy the stock at a very attractive price and accumulate shares before the price of oil goes up and the stock probably gets a little bit more expensive.
And you're accumulating these shares now and that allows you to compound the growth you get from those dividends over time. That's why I really like Chevron right now. All right, let's move on to your second stock pick in your list of generational buying opportunities right now. Sure. The next stock that I'm looking at is UPS, United Parcel Service, uh, ticker symbol again is UPS.
Now, transportation stocks are under pressure right now. There's a lot of reasons for that. Low and middle income consumers are showing signs of cutting back on their spending activity. The stocks down at 5-year lows. There's a lot of concern that UPS is going to be losing business from their largest customer, which is Amazon.
So, there's a lot of reasons to say you'd want to stay away from this stock, but that doesn't seem to be what analysts are saying. And that's why I'm thinking there's reason to believe that with the stock down over 33% for the year, I think it's down over 27% just in 2025, the bottom may be in here for UPS. And this may be a time where investors want to jump in and say, "Hey, this is again a time where we can accumulate shares at a nice value.
" So, it's a good value right now. And it also offers a pretty good dividend for investors, right? Uh, currently the stock has a dividend yield of over 6.7% and a payout, again, an annual payout per share of $6.56. So, you're getting a stock that's trading near its 52- week lows. It's trading for under $100 a share. And you've got a really nice chance to accumulate shares right now and still collect a dividend.
Again, that's a really important key here. You're being paid to wait on the stock before it goes back up. And why might we expect it to go back up? Well, we're expecting that you're going to have a resolution to some of these tariff issues. That should build strong momentum for the economy in the second half of the year.
And that means you're going to probably start seeing an increase in package deliveries, not only for consumers, but for businesses, which bodess well for something like UPS. I know you mentioned earlier that analysts are still expecting a strong year for this company. Let's look at what analysts are saying and also uh what the chart history shows for UPS.
I feel like this has also been a company that's been around for a long time and has had strong performance from investors for quite a while. Right. So again, analysts are saying that they're giving UPS a consensus price target of $12641. And right now it has a price of $9753. So there's they believe that there's almost 30% upside to the stock right now.
And if you see it get up to $127, that's going to take it right up to about where it was in January of this year before it started to sell off. So analysts are basically saying all of the dip in the stock this year, it's going to make up for that and then some, which is which is something that should appeal to a lot of investors who are looking for stocks that they can buy at a value right now.
And again, that same final question of just why is UPS specifically a good generational buy? Despite any short-term problems it's going through, the company's not in any danger of going bankrupt. It's not a company that's not going to be around. It's going through a very cyclical turn in the economy that's affecting its business.
Just like in 2020 and 2021 the stock did very well because of a a tailwind on their business. Right now that stock's going through a headwind on the business. Those cycles tend to change. You see that um you've seen that in the company's stock price over the years. And right now the bigger the gain was in 2021, the bigger the drop off in 2023 and 2024.
But I think with the stock now trading right around a five-year low, I think this is a time for investors to really say, "Hey, has the selling gone far enough? Now might be a really good time to think about getting in." Yeah, it's definitely one of those stocks you want to look at if you are growthminded because like you said, about a 30% upside on a a really solid company is a great return on your investment.
If you are looking for more growth opportunities as an investor, check out this free report on marketbeat.com right now. It's seven blockbuster stocks for growth investors who are looking to find a boost in their portfolio. You can scan the QR code or click the link in the description of this video to get that free report on marketbeat.com right now.
And here are a few other stock ideas that could help you grow your portfolio, too. All right, Chris, let's get to your final stock pick on this list of three generational buying opportunities. Last one on my list is probably the most controversial of the three and that's Campbell Soup Company or really right now known as the Campbell Company.
I'm sorry they they changed their name here. So, this is the company that's got the most exposure to tariffs of the three companies that we've talked about. Some people may say UPS has exposure to tariffs, but their their exposure is more um more in a tangential way because of they might lose some business if the supply and demand goes down.
But but Campbell is affected because some of their products are actually manufactured in China. They do import some of their frozen vegetables from other countries. So they may be affected by the tariffs in the short term. Some investors are also concerned about, well, if there's a if the food prices keep going up and there's kind of an anemic growth pattern for these companies that rely on very tight margins, maybe that's not really great for the Campbell company.
Here again, I'll say if we go back to the criteria that I started with, they're trading at an attractive forward PE level. They've got a they've got a nice dividend and uh they're trading near their their the relative strength indicator suggests the stock is probably a little bit on the oversold side. That's why I kind of like Campbell Soup here or Campbell's company here.
They um they have a portfolio of brands that consumers tend to be very brand loyal towards and I think that they'll be able to weather this this uh tariff situation probably be able to pass along price increases to consumers if they haven't already had those price increases in place. And I think that's going to be they're going to be just companies that they fall in that consumer staples category.
These are products that consumers are going to be looking for when they're looking to save money and instead of buying some other products. Yeah, definitely a consumer staple company for sure and one like like the others. It's been around for such a long time. There's a lot of that brand loyalty with this company. I want to pull up the chart here and look at just how much of a discount this company is trading at right now.
Probably like you said, largely due to uh fears around tariffs and how it might impact this business. So, how much of a discount can you get Campbell for right now? You know, similar to what we just looked at with UPS, you're looking at a stock that's trading at its five-year lows. And you'd kind of have to start thinking, does it re is it really a stock that you're looking at that should be trading lower than it was in 2019.
Not so sure about that. Right now, it's down 13% year-to date, 19% over the last 12 months. Analysts though are suggesting that there could be as much as a 23% upside on the stock. Again, that's a pretty big upside for such a wellestablished company that also has some pretty good returns for investors, too, right? I mean, you're you're talking about a company that has a 4.
3% dividend yield. It's not as the price of the stock is not as high as UPS and Chevron. So you're getting a dividend payout per year of $1.56, but you're only paying right now about $35 for the shares. So again, when we're looking at generational buying opportunities, you're looking to accumulate stock while it's trading at historic lows as Campbell is.
It's trading at five-year lows. It's a good time to accumulate the stock, cash in on that dividend, and then look for the stock price growth to rally as the economic conditions turn around. Well, you made a good case for why this is a generational buying opportunity, too. Thank you, Chris, for this list. We'd love to hear what you think as viewers.
Are you interested in some of these more long-term companies that have been around at those 52- week lows as great opportunities, or are you looking in other directions for a once-ina-lifetime buy the dip opportunity right now in this market? We'd love to hear where you're turning and what you think of this list. Let us know in the comments.
Thanks again for watching everyone, and as always, happy investing.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp