Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
Welcome to Catalyst. I'm Madison Mills. We're 30 minutes into the US trading day. Let's get you the three catalysts we're watching this hour. First up, we're going to break down the market outlook as investors balance trade risks with earnings. We'll get you those details ahead. Plus, we'll break down the implications for the auto industry with President Trump set to provide some relief.
And we're going to hone in on the state of the consumer with confidence and Jolt's data crossing the wire. [Music] Half an hour into the start of US trading. Let's get a check on the markets. Taking a look at the major averages here. You're seeing continued losses just a touch on the S&P 500 down about a tenth of a percent. Your tech heavy NASDAQ off nearly 3/10en of a percent.
You got the Dow moving to the upside here. Let's flip it over though to the bond market. See what we're seeing there. Treasuries continuing to sort of sort of start doing their job here when it comes to a riskoff moment in markets. You got your tenure at that 420 level, down about a basis point here. And finally, let's take a look over at Bitcoin here.
You've got Bitcoin up on the day, up nearly 1%, but still below that key 95,000 level. And we've got breaking Jolts data crossing the wire. Let's get you those numbers. Jolts job openings coming in just a touch under the 7.5 number that was expected coming in at 7.1 million. Here you've got the job openings rate coming in just slightly below the survey number of 4.
5% coming in at 4.3%. Really interesting to take a look at the quits rate as well coming in at 2.1%. It does look like the quits level was slightly above the survey estimate as well. The layoffs level interestingly coming in just below expectations. The layoffs rate coming in here at 1%. So really interesting to see some of that dynamic playing out in the labor market.
We've continued to hear from sources that the key thing to monitor, of course, is going to be the labor market when it comes to whether or not tariffs are causing considerable pain in our economy. Again, that job openings number coming in at 7.1 million, the estimate for 7.4 million. So, just a touch below those expectations, but I'm fascinated by that quits rate number.
Interesting to see that there's at least enough confidence for individuals that they are willing to quit their jobs at this moment. Well, to discuss this and more, I want to bring in Bob Lane. He is a leading technicals expert as well as the founder and technical analyst at Explosive Options. He's going to join me for the hour.
Bob, it's great to have you on. Thank you for making the time to stick with us for the hour this morning. I know that you look at the technicals, but it's interesting when the economic data tells us something about the state of the consumer, especially when job openings are such a big concern, right? To what extent are you seeing any recessionary fear playing out in the technicals right now? Really not seeing very much uh here, Maddie, with with recessionary fears yet.
And if you take a look at this JOL data, I looked at some history. Um, you realize that the JOL data has shown that this number has fallen about 50% in the last three and a half years. If you go back to the uh end of 2021 when we're close to 12 million on the Jolts. Now we're at 7 million. So it's it's a huge drop in uh in job openings, which kind of explains why the labor market has been so tight for such a long time.
We still have uh four to 4.2% unemployment rate. We're going to get a number coming up on Friday. And I think that that uh right there is going to tell you that the Fed is going to be more interested in watching more data related to inflation and not so much towards the uh towards the jobs number. Yeah.
And I I want to get your take to on HSBC cutting its annual price target for the S&P 500 this morning below the 6,000 mark, hitting it was previously at 6,700, now cutting its target to 5600. That's in line with Bank of America's forecast. What are you seeing in the technicals that indicate whether or not we could hit as low as 5,600 for year end? Well, certainly uh just a few weeks ago, we had some uh a huge drop down to about 4,800 on the S&P 500 and and that was a a scary number that a lot of people were looking at.
You know, are we going to hold that level? I think the NASDAQ had hit a level where uh it had technically been in bare market territory minus 20%. And for the S&P 500, u you know, that th this level right now that we're at right now, um is uh actually where many analysts are expect for us to finish by the end of the year.
So, so what do we have going here? I mean, is basically is is is the market full value right now? And and and that's really what these analysts are telling you. Uh what I think is interesting, Matty, is that uh from the beginning of the year, everybody knew tariffs were going to be introduced at some point in time in 2025 when after the election was uh in in November.
Um so these analysts still came out with some of these large price targets in the SP500 64 65. I even saw as high as 7,000 uh for the SP500. knowing the facts that we were going to have some tariffs and how the negative effect they were going to have on the economy. Why did they have such a a high price target? That's a that's what I'm wondering, right? I mean, that's a key question is what investors were missing heading into this administration. Thanks, Bob.
You're going to stick with us here. I do want to talk about consumer confidence, break this data for you. Consumer confidence falling for the fifth straight month in April to 86. Economists were expecting 88 here. Interesting to see the present situation number coming in at 133.5. That's just a touch below the prior number. Expectations coming in at 54.4.
The previous number was 65.2. So a significant move to the downside on those expectations. Joining us in studio to break it down. We got Yolena Shalia. She is the Conference Board's senior US economist. Elena, great to speak with you here. What does your headline take away from this report? Well, expectations are at 13-year low.
And uh if you look at uh what consumers are telling us about jobs availability, they expect that uh to be really really poor. So that index is actually uh at its highest level uh since the great recession. The index that tells us that consumers expect fewer jobs available. So this is telling us this is getting to the consumer.
They were surprised by the tariffs. Remember this survey was taken right uh at the um you know at the high peak of uncertainty during the liberation day that is included in the sample. So I think consumers were very much surprised by uh the severity of those tariffs and they are actually expecting to uh affect their finances and their jobs.
So I I want to pull out a jarring stat from this print that I know you'll be aware of. the share of consumers expecting fewer jobs in the next six months 32.1% nearly as high as in April 2009 in the middle of the great recession. Totally. So that is a scaring thing and uh they are very much concerned about their personal finances as well.
So uh I think the JOL's data that you cited earlier that is an interesting one as well because the job openings rate fell to 4.3%. 4.5% is kind of the borderline between, you know, uh, significant increases in the unemployment rate and small increases in the unemployment rate. When it falls below 4.5%. This is significant. We should probably expect uh much more significant increases in the unemployment rate.
And yet you have stocks rallying at the moment. To what extent do you think that the narrative about consumer resilience over the last four years is perhaps being taken for granted right now by consumers? Do you think or or by investors? Do you think that that consumer resilience is going to continue despite the soft data? I think yeah, exactly.
The soft data and the hard data when the hard data starts uh falling. That's where when we're probably going to see something. Well, the data on the last consumer confidence is about 12 year low and it does indicate that we may be heading into a recession. At what level would would you say uh we're out of that um recessionary potential? I mean uh usually expectations below 80 uh level is indicative of a recession.
We we are way below that uh for a few months now. So but it doesn't mean we're in a recession now. So uh you know there's been some disconnect between uh confidence sentiment indicators and the reality but I think we are going to start to see some uh follow through in the hard data. The one to watch is obviously this Friday and I think we're going to probably see a weak number as well even this early given that you know the tariff policy just went into place perhaps maybe it takes more time.
No you think we'll see it immediately. I think we're going to see a freeze in terms of hiring. Maybe not layoffs just yet, but uh hiring freezes will impact the number and perhaps uh some uh layoffs in uh the industries that are more uh susceptible to this uh trade shocks uh such as you know trade and transportation and uh other things like that. Yeah.
What are you watching to determine when that labor market data will really roll over and be indicative of some pain? Unemployment rate and the details beneath that unemployment rate. though flows into unemployment from different uh you know uh sectors layoffs into um you know jobs into unemployment out of labor force into unemployment if that starts rising that's uh going to be a really u tricky situation as far as the uh government is concerned we we we've seen quite a few layoffs the past couple of months and and how is
that going to uh have an effect and when is that going to have an effect on the jobs report because the report obviously huge lag effect on that with birth date uh uh birth death uh statistics but how soon will that show up in the data? We could see that uh this month this in this coming uh report.
The um big worry for the economy as a whole from that statistic is that you know it's not just government workers it's the contractors and the relation uh here is you know you are going to see that pass through into contractors at at a rate of 2.5 2.6 jobs per one uh government layoff. So that's a pass through.
Another thing is state and local government workers. Are we going to see a slowdown in that sector? most most likely because uh we are we ran out of uh the pandemic funds for them to hire people and the private sector I think we'll see a significant slowdown in legion hospitality uh for example because consumers are pulling back from this discretionary spending on services in the time of significant uncertainty so that is uh where we see we we're going to see some pass through I think yeah Neil Zetta has been flagging that state and local government
slowdown as something that is a significant risk for some time, Elena. So, thank you so much for bringing that up and for giving us great context on the data. Appreciate it as always. We're going to have all your markets action ahead here on Yahoo Finance. Stick around. You're watching [Music] Catalysts.
President Trump's first 100 days in office has been volatile to say the least. We're going to compare the market's performance since he was inaugurated to what the market expected after the election. I'm Jared Blickery, host of Stocks in Translation. And to begin with today, we're going to take a look at how large cap S&P 500 sectors, all 11 of them, have performed from November 5th of last year through January 17th, which was the last day of trading before the inauguration.
And we have that chart right here. It goes from materials all the way on the left, which was down a bit over that period, all the way to consumer discretionary, which was the biggest gainer. Consumer discretionary houses Amazon and also Tesla. Tesla saw that huge jump right after the inauguration and it looked like Jeff Bezos was making friendly with uh President Trump and then things reversed a bit.
But before I move on, I want to show you what was really popping in those early days after the election. Those were those market expectations. So financials were a big runner up there to consumer discretionary that was based on the deregulation push that uh President Trump was uh part of his agenda there. We also saw energy that was the uh another trade that was kind of a pillar of his first administration.
And then what wasn't working those early days real estate, consumer staples, and healthc care, those are all defensive sectors, but also materials, a cyclical sector. That was kind of an outlier. So an interesting case, but I do want to move on to what's actually happened since the inauguration. And I have two little data points on each of these sectors to help us decode that.
So the red dot, focus on that first. That was the inauguration to the April 8th market low and that was about 80 calendar calendar days or so. So not the full 100 about three-fifths or four fifths of that. But you can see the worst off was tech. Tech just got absolutely battered. Consumer discretionary as well.
That's that Amazon and Tesla trade. Even energy reversed hard to the downside. And then a lot of these other cyclical uh trades kicked in to the downside as well. industrials, materials stayed negative and also some others. Uh, but I do want to kind of bring it to the present here. I'll do that in a second and just tell you the white bar is where we are now.
So, we've seen a lot of these losses mitigated and we can see that in consumer discretionary. We had a big rally by Amazon and Tesla. We've seen tech come roaring back and we'll take a look at that in a second. Industrials, energy, materials. So, we've made some significant gains off the lows. So now we're going to take a look at what's happening since the inauguration in real time on the Wi-Fi interactive here.
And this is the heat map. This is how things are shaking out. Only consumer staples is in the green during this period. That's a pretty defensive sector. And if you look at the runners up, that would be utilities, real estate, and XLV, which is healthcare. Those are all very defensive sectors.
So that's not the that's not the greatest setup for a bull run. Um, by the way, the worst off still consumer discretionary and also energy to the downside, but and but we've made some tremendous gains off of those lows that we saw uh in the recent past. And at the number one spot is tech. So, it's nice to see that early leader in the bull trade, the AI trade.
Tech kind of resuming its perhaps rightful place in this bull market, which it still is. We haven't experienced that 20% draw down just yet. tech number one, consumer discretionary number two, the Amazon Tesla trade and then materials, even materials has come back, industrials, XLI there. So, we've seen cyclicals come running back and then what has been the lagard? Everything's in the green, but we do have uh some some uh sectors that are lagging. XLV is the biggest.
That's healthcare, then staples, then energy, then utilities. Those are all very defensive sectors for the most part. And uh you put it all together, we have the makings of a potential bull run here. Uh I don't want to get too far ahead of ourselves because we are looking for that next catalyst.
So we'll have to see how this one pans out. Tune in to Stocks and Translation for more market decoding deep dives. New episodes on Tuesdays and Thursdays on Yahoo Financ's website or wherever you find your podcast. Thanks so much. [Music] [Applause] Time now for some of today's trending tickers. We are watching Honeywell, Adidas, and Amazon.
First up, Honeywell raising its fullear earnings guidance incorporating the expected effect of tariffs. The company's mitigation actions and volatility in demand. This comes after the industrial conglomerate topped first quarter expectations with sales up nearly 8% from a year ago. I'm joined by Bob Lane, explosive options technical analyst, to discuss.
Bob, a huge pop in the shares here to a degree up over 5% and interesting to see just the degree of ability the company had to raise its fullear guidance especially on its EPS. What does that signal to you? Well, it tells me that they see a lot of strength coming out to the back half of the year and really not too much of effect from from tariffs which is always going to be a concern.
Now, Mattie, with uh with some of these companies that are reporting in this quarter right now, um I'm looking at free cash flow. for cash flow is huge for um for for Honeywell this quarter. Also margins were enormous uh up close to 20% which is uh for this quarter which is much higher than normal.
Um backlog grew 9% to uh with a high singledigit order growth. So some of these um metrics and some of these uh future earnings uh for uh an orders for Honeywell out there really give you a good uh clue as to what their business is like. And I think going out to the out years, we're talking about 2026 and even to 2027, the CEO said that their business looks robust.
Yeah, that certainly did. And that is perhaps why you're seeing that pop in the shares here. But we do want to move on to Adidas, warning it will have to raise prices on all US products due to President Trump's tariffs. The Sports Barrel company also holding off on boosting its financial guidance for the year because of the uncertainty despite strong first quarter results.
Interestingly here, the company's chief executive saying, "Since we currently cannot produce almost any of our products in the US, these higher tariffs will eventually cause higher costs for all of our products for the US market." So, Bob, what's interesting to me about this is a company, you kind of have two versions of exposure, exposure for the retailers, exposure to China and how much they can build in the United States.
And this company is saying it's not the exposure to China that's the issue, it's the inability to produce in the States. That's right. And I I you know, I look at this drop in in Adidas here as as a huge opportunity. I would I would take this opportunity to start buying some shares. And I'll tell you why.
Because the competitors are really faltering right now. And and they're tripping over themselves trying to figure out, you know, uh where they're going to be producing product. I think Nike is uh certainly, you know, obviously the the big player uh in shoes and in and athletic wear. They're wondering where they're going to be uh producing their their products.
Also, is it going to be China? Is it going to be India? elsewhere. And then when you talk about other companies like uh like Hoka shoes which are made by um uh I can't remember which the name of the company but we got Hoka shoes which you know really ramped up their business about two years ago and they they managed to um take a lot of share away from Adidas and from Nike and from Puma and some of these other names.
Um but I think they're also running into an issue there um uh w with production as well too. So, I think at least Adidas is coming out in front of the problem right now. All right, Bob, we also want to get to Amazon Amazon slammed by the White House for reportedly planning to display the cost of President Trump's tariffs next to the total price of products on its website.
White House press secretary Karen Lev calling it a quote hostile and political act. But Amazon critically now denying the report. That's according to a reporter with the Washington Post citing an Amazon spokesperson saying this was never under consideration for the main Amazon website. instead saying this was about Amazon Hall.
Remember, Amazon Hall is the competitor to Shien, to Teemo. We've seen Shien and Teeu lifting prices significantly over the past couple of weeks. And again, this is just according to a Washington Post reporter who did say the team that runs our ultra lowcost Amazon Hall is considering listing import charges on products.
Never a consideration for the main Amazon site. I am out to multiple people at Amazon to try and get clarity on this this morning. But Bob, as you can see, this hasn't stopped Amazon stock from suffering a bit, right? And I'll tell you what, if this is the reason why Amazon is down today, I I'm in there buying it with both hands. They have earnings coming out later on this week.
Usually, the first quarter is not their best quarter, but I think coming off of a huge holiday period for for Amazon, which was the fourth quarter. This first quarter, I think they're going to come out lights out. I think the AWS business is is finally made a huge turn last quarter, and they're ramping up their business. Um, I think any any drop here in Amazon is a huge opportunity um for uh for investors and traders.
All right, Bob, thank you so much. For our audience, you can scan the QR code below to track the best and worst performing stocks with Yahoo Finance's trending tickers page. Well, big tech is pressing pause on some of its AI data center plans. Microsoft said it's slowing some of its construction projects, while a recent report from Wells Fargo said Amazon Web Services was considering pulling back its spend.
But that doesn't necessarily mean the AI spend itself is slowing. So far, both Amazon and Microsoft have stood by their 2025 capex forecasts. The two planning to spend a combined $180 billion. Joining us now with more context on how those AI data center dollars are being spent.
We've got Anthony Johnson, CEO of Clayco. It's a construction firm specializing in data centers with clients including Google, AWS, and Microsoft. Anthony, great to speak with you here. Talk to me about what you are seeing in terms of this investment here. What are you seeing cross your desk? Does it mirror some of the reporting that we've heard thus far in some of these earnings calls? Yeah, thank you. Good morning.
Appreciate the chance to speak with you again. Um, happy to dive into that a little bit. I would say that what what we're hearing and seeing on a daily basis is uh, you know, continues to be incredible demand for growth in this space. Um, I think you can kind of relate the data center expansion to other industries over time to where neither the industry's trajectory nor the individual companies within that industry.
Their their business plans, their trajectories, they're not always exactly linear. Their plans change over time. They need to adopt. New technologies are introduced which which causes the time to maybe shift or adjust your plans. And so that happens on an individual company basis all the time. But the industry as a whole remains very very strong.
And we're seeing nothing but continued growth trends in the business. Yeah. And to what extent are you monitoring what you're hearing in terms of capex this earnings cycle? Obviously, Alphabet was the first of your clients that we listed and and they did mention that they are maintaining their capex spend. Does that match with what you're hearing about in terms of capex or are you even hearing about a potential growth in capex moving forward? Yeah, you know, largely what what we see in here mirrors what you see in the in the public announcements in terms of
what each company's individual goals are. Um, and as we, you know, look across the pipeline of of prospects as well, it's it's really not even just the the big, you know, hyperscalers, the big names you're showing on the screen here as well, there's other uh players that are in the space. There's also the quantum computing side of things that are that is continuing to to grow exponentially.
So, we we're really excited for all the continued trends in the business. And I I wonder too when you think about those trends in the business, I I want to talk a little bit about investment in domestic infrastructure. Obviously, this is something the Trump administration wanted from the big tech companies. We've seen 500 billion from the likes of Nvidia.
Now, an additional 150 billion from the likes of IBM. How do you see these investments impacting the ability for these firms to meet growing demand and therefore increase profits? It is truly a modern space race we're kind of in the midst of right now. No question. It is u it is there's there's a lot of new capital coming to the space to be deployed which is exciting.
Uh that introduces you know new resources. It introduces an additional level of speed that we may not have otherwise had. Um really the the you know with the support of the the government and and big investment from and support from that standpoint that just adds further fuel to this this growth fire. Um what what we really see as as the constraints in the industry are how fast can we get power and um you know that's that's a constant puzzle that's changing that we're helping companies look uh throughout the United States of you know
weighing their options and finding sites that either have existing power or can be modified and and um you know how fast can that happen? How fast can new infrastructure be built with a utility company? how fast can that infrastructure be actually fabricated by the companies who make turbines and and things like that.
So, it's really a mad dash of pulling together um all different types of energy providers um renewable sector solar specifically natural gas um uh obviously in nuclear is a big part of the conversation today and and you know repurposing some of those facilities to support this rapid growth. So, as we look at our business as a whole, um, you know, we're not just, you know, needing to provide assistance on the construction of these facilities, it's really leveraging the full vertical integration of our enterprise, which includes, um, on the
real estate side, helping our owners find powered sites, on the design engineering side, helping to get these facilities built for the the newest modern technology, and then obviously on the construction side, the delivery. And you know, one of the bigger challenges that we're working with our customers to overcome right now is is also the labor side of things.
The explosive growth in this and the need for skilled trades. And so that all-encompassing solution is what our customers are really looking for to help achieve that exponential growth rate in this constrained environment. All right, Anthony, we got to run. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. Thank you. Coming up, we'll speak to the Coca-Cola company CEO about the company's earnings, trade policy, and the consumer. You won't want to miss it.
[Music] Welcome back to Yahoo Finance. Coca-Cola shares popping after topping expectations for its first quarter earnings. Let's get right into it with the CEO of Coca-Cola, James Quincy. James, always nice to get some time with you. Welcome back to Yahoo Finance. Uh now, I just got off your earnings call. talking about how volume was impacted by by consumer sentiment weakening volumes in North America down 3%.
You know, as you zoom out and you study the health of the US consumer, are they experiencing recessionary conditions given everything going on in the world as it pertains to the trade war? Um, look, I think we we had good global volume growth, 2% globally, and yes, there was a there was a decline in the US.
I think the that as it relates to the decline in the US in Q1, it was much more a set of uh kind of factors specific to Q1. There was some very cold weather in January. Uh Easter is much later this year than previous years, which is a big selling period uh for us. And there was some consumer pullback more specifically in some of the Hispanic uh areas of the country.
Um I I wouldn't call it recessionary at all. I think it was really much more idiosyncratic in terms of a few factors. Um because actually even though sentiment's been impacted as we come into April, you know, consumers are still out there spending. So I think it's more a continuation of certain consumer segments under pressure because of inflation coming out of last year.
Uh that we need to deliver affordability options and then some kind specific reasons in Q1. And we we know what we need to fix. uh we know what we need to focus on going forward and get back on our growth plan. I think as you say that given the current dynamics Q2 and Q3 could be a little choppy uh but we know what we need to do as it relates to the US within the global portfolio.
James, within that consumer weakness in North America, is it more pertaining to the shopper that goes to a supermarket to buy a couple bottles of soda or is it more confined to the convenience store channel, which in my view has always been viewed as a leading economic indicator? Look, if you look at the US business, the weakness in volume in Q1 was concentrated in what we call future consumption packaging, which is much more predominantly uh in in in supermarkets or in kind of independent trade uh outlets rather than either
convenience or uh the kind of away from home QSRs and all the away from home channels. So that's where the weakness was focused which I think is a partly an indication of some of the affordability pressure uh for the lower income consumers and some of the geopolitical reaction.
Um so that's why I think that with what our strategy that we're putting in place we can certainly begin to address that weakness while still maintaining uh good growth in the rest of the portfolio in the rest of the channels. James you're the second CEO of a large package goods company. Call out weakness in the consumer in the Hispanic consumer to me.
The other one was two weeks ago when I talked to Constellation Brand CEO Bill Nulans. Of course, they make Modell and Corona beer. He thinks it's because of the administration's uh immigration policies and other economic concerns. Would you agree with that assessment? Why is that Hispanic consumer under a lot of pressure? Um I I I'm not sure I would characterize it that way.
Look, I think that the Hispanic some of the Hispanic consumers in the in particularly in some of the southern states in the US and actually frankly in some of the northern states uh in Mexico there's a high degree of economic integration of the supply chain uh between those parts uh uh you know the Mexico particularly northern Mexico uh and the US and I think some of the the the uncertainty that's about exactly where is this going caused them to pull back a little in terms of spending.
Um I don't see that as a permanent feature. I think this will be worked through. Uh I think it's to some extent the newness of the news. Um so we believe if we focus on reinforcing that we got yes we got global brands but those brands are made local in every country around the world and the operations are local, the factories, the employees are local.
Um now backed up with affordability and execution that we'll be able to uh see a kind of a normalized uh business with with with all our consumers including some of the Hispanic ones in those areas. James, I've had CEOs tell me privately they of global companies, they have started to see anti-American sentiment impact their businesses in various ways, notably on the top line.
Have you seen that with Coca-Cola? And then if so, how do you plan to respond? Look, I think the there have been waves in the past of, you know, anti-US sentiment uh for a whole series of reasons going back historically and I'm sure there'll be some in the future. Um so this not the first time there's been a bit of pressure on sentiment towards the US and we have seen in certain countries that happen this year as it happened uh the last couple of years for different reasons.
Um we have a very clear game plan as I said we may have a global brand portfolio but the operations are profoundly local. So by focusing in on the localess the the brands the the products in those country are made in those country by local workers largely using locally sourced ingredients um backed up with affordability and good marketing whilst you can't stop every problem and you don't bounce back immediately you do bring business back to where it was and so we have a very clear game plan on how to get that and we'll roll it out as and
where uh we see we see the pressures. The trade war of course James is impacting businesses in many different ways. How much this year will your cost be up because it's going to cost more to buy dispensing machines from overseas suppliers or concentrate or aluminum cans? I mean, do you have a number you could share? I don't have a number I can share because it's really putting a a focus on a very narrow uh cost lever within the business.
Yes, wheel the company have to pay a little more for some dispensing as you said, maybe some maybe some orange juice, maybe the bottles for some resin and aluminum, but you got to take it in the round. I mean, you got to add to that. Well, what's happening with the underlying commodity price? What's happening to the exchange rate? Where do we sit with our hedged positions? And that's just talking about those those singular uh inputs.
You got to look across the whole broad spectrum of all the cost levers. And then every year there'll be some pluses and minuses. And I wouldn't call out any one uh because there's not rising above a massive uh spike and and within the managing the pluses and minuses of the cost levers. We have not as yet ourselves or our local bottling partners uh in the in the US seen a need to change our current pricing plans.
So you're not raising prices this quarter. We're not doing it out of cycle. Obviously prices went up because a whole set of normal things, last year's inflation, uh that's already happened. Uh but we're sticking to our current pricing plan, uh because you know, some things are more expensive and some things are less expensive and it all goes into the bundle.
Would you at least uh take a page of what looks to be what Amazon is doing reportedly today, listing tariff price related increases on its site? So if you're not going to take price increases, would you show consumers in full transparency this is what it would cost here and because of tariffs you're paying now more for Coca-Cola? I'm I'm I'm we don't break out elements of our cost structure anywhere across our cost structure.
I'm not sure why I would do it differently for one element. I mean then the next day you'll ask me, well why didn't you show this piece and why didn't you show that piece? No, that's not how that's we're going to manage all the cost structure and we're going to we're going to offer it to the marketplace at a certain price and we believe through our marketing and our innovation and our commercial policies and our execution, our packaging, uh we will earn the right uh to to to to show the consumer that's good value for the products we offer. You made a great
point on the earnings call this morning, James, amongst uh many to be quite frank with you that we're not going to see empty shelves with Coca-Cola. I'm going to go into Walmart. I'm going to go into Target and we're not going to see supply chain disruptions for your product and that's certainly good.
But we're now we're hearing reports that you could see less imports from China to the US. There might be empty shelves around the products you sell at these retailers. I mean, how do you respond to that? And do you see the self do you see that being a headwind to your business? Um, I don't know the final answer to that question, Brian.
Um clearly you know if you look at data on uh shipping container bookings getting out into late May and early June um there's a big drop now to what extent people have already brought it in and they've got plenty of stock to what extent not. It's very difficult for me to tell across all these different sectors.
I certainly can imagine there might be disruptions in other categories around uh beverages. Uh, and I don't know whether that'll mean people do less less trips to the supermarket or they actually, frankly, have more money to spend on the things that are there. It's very unclear. Um, I think we're going to find out, but there's nothing I can do about that.
I need to focus on my game plan uh and keep executing the core growth strategy of the company. And so, we'll keep turning up. Uh, we'll keep making sure the the shelves have our beverages on them. Uh, and we'll keep making them attractive uh for consumers. Uh lastly, James, over the course of seven years, while you've been in that seat as a CEO of Coca-Cola, you've driven a lot of innovation.
Now, we've seen deal activity pick up in the beverage space in the past year or so. What are you doing on the innovation front this year? And can you continue at the pace you have been driving the business over the past seven years given everything going on in the world? Uh we c we certainly need to we want to keep focusing on driving more innovation.
Um and we will need to be ruthless about the innovation that doesn't work and double down on what does work. But it's still you know emblematically this first quarter in the US the number one brand in US retail in terms of adding dollars of sales growth uh was Fair Life and there's still a long way to go. So we'll be innovating in new stuff.
We just launched Simply Pop and we'll be doubling down on innovation to extend the runway on newish brands like Fair Life and of course doing innovation uh on the core mothership brand Coca-Cola which we did with with Orange Cream as well this quarter um to really keep making Coca-Cola relevant for the next generation of consumers.
So innovation will be a core piece of what we do and we we believe it will continue to drive our growth strategy. Keep turning out that fair life. James, I use it all the time after my workouts. James Quincy, uh, chairman and coal. Always nice to get some time with you. We'll talk to you soon. Thanks, Ryan.
All right, Madison, over, uh, over to you. Thanks so much, Brian, for bringing us the fantastic interview as always. Really appreciate it. We're going to have all your markets action ahead, so stick around. You're watching Catalysts. General Motor is pulling its 2025 earnings guidance and pausing share buybacks amid tariff uncertainty.
This as White House press secretary Caroline Levit confirms President Trump will sign an executive order on auto tariffs today expected to soften the impact of levies on the sector. Joining me now Michael TD Cowan equity analyst. Always great to speak with you. What does all of this mean for GM? Scrapping guidance freezing p buybacks a net income slide.
Where does it leave you on the stock? Sure. Yeah. Uh, thank you for having me. So, really no surprises, a solid quarter from GM, a modest beat uh, pretty much all around. I think it does make sense given the near-term uncertainty to pause uh, the open market share purchases. We've seen other companies do that in the space as well.
And given to your point just kind of yesterday's developments with tariffs, I think the company wanted a couple more days to digest the news before they come back to the market and update the 2025 guidance. So, makes a lot of sense to us. But overall, the quarter was solid and now we're eagerly awaiting uh Thursday's update.
And talk me through the pull forward dynamic and whether or not you're seeing that in GM's earnings here because obviously net income sliding in the first quarter. To what extent does that indicate to you that consumers weren't interested in pre purchasing from GM before the tariffs were put into effect? Yeah, we we did see some some signs of a pre-by in the US for new vehicles in the month of March.
Uh although you know some of that did come out of GM's inventory. So inventory ended up lower than expected. Uh we do still see some pentup demand though in the US. We do think underlying auto demand is relatively strong. We think consumers from our survey work at TD Cowan. Consumers do want to increase their cars per household in the next couple of of years per our survey back in in February.
So underlying auto demand trends were strong throughout Q1. But you're right, we did see some pre-by uh in March. We could see maybe some of that in into the second quarter. Uh but overall if you look at GM's market share performance in Q1, their pricing performance in Q1, the success of their new products, the company does continue to execute well and perform very well overall.
It's Tai on the international spectrum here. We saw good strength in China and and elsewhere other other countries as well too. Um do you see that continuing? Um I I saw that EBIT uh for international was up close to uh 150% in China over over it was negative in China. It's up a positive 45 million EBIT for uh for the China income.
Do you see that continuing or is that part of that pull forward you were talking about? Yeah, the international probably didn't see pull forward. Uh GM International did come in a little bit below our forecast in Q1, but you're right, they have been making some progress in China. It's been very challenging for GM in China. They've done a number of restructuring actions there.
So, we do s see uh prospects for improvement there over the next couple of years uh in the international business, but most of the pull forward uh really was concentrating in the US starting uh in the month of March. And I want to broaden the conversation out a bit, Tai, because you cover so many of the automakers. President Trump is expected to soften auto tariffs at a rally tonight.
I I'm curious which of the automakers that you cover do you anticipate rallying the most when we wake up to the opening bell tomorrow morning off the back of those announcements of softened tariffs for automakers? Absolutely. We're still waiting a lot more detail and definitely some open questions and clarifications, but if you kind of look at just the relief on the parts tariff themselves, you that would benefit companies uh that have a fair amount of of of US footprint um in Ford certainly has more US of vehicle manufacturing footprint than GM. Tesla
of course produces all their vehicles uh in in the US in terms of the North America footprint. So those companies would stand to benefit uh more just because they're more exposed to uh parts tariffs. So any relief and again waiting for for more detail but any relief on parts tariffs would acrewue kind of all else being equal to companies that are are more exposed to them uh in the context of the overall tariff situation.
GM of course would be exposed as well but still a significant footprint in both Mexico and Canada. Um, and so we'll have to kind of see whether there's any future uh relief on on those as well. But for now, from what we've read, uh, the immediate relief seems to be focused on on the parts uh, predominantly as well as some of the stacking tariffs uh, that that have been in question as well.
All right, thank you so much for joining us and that great breakdown. Also, thanks to my guest host Bob Lang for sticking with us for the conversation. Appreciate you both. Coming up here, we're going to take a look at President Trump's first 100 days in office, both stock market performance and his approval rating. That's next.
[Music] As President Trump notches 100 days in office, we want to break down how the economy and voters are responding to his second term so far. Joining me now, we've got Yahoo Finance Washington correspondent Ben Wkll and senior columnist Rick Newman. Guys, great to get the game back together here. Ben, I want to start with you.
How is Trump responding to the underperformance of the stock market since he took office? For sure. Yeah. So, the White House is going all out this week on their 100 days, but the one sort of huge fly in the ointment here is the stock market, which is down 8%. The S&P is down 8% since inauguration day. And I'm a I'm a bit of a glutton for punishment.
So, I went back and looked at basically every time Trump and his aids have talked about the market over these first 100 days to kind of to sus out some trends. And I found three that I think are are telling about kind of how Trump approaches it. The first one is essentially a case that this was the plan all along.
Trump described the the drop the drop right after Liberation Day as quote expected and it's sort of part of a larger argument from them that this is part of a transition that it's gonna that's a short-term downturn in the stock market that's going to go up. The other thing that's interesting is a real focus on other subjects.
You hear a lot more about Deep Seek the the Chinese AI company that did rattle markets in January. United healthcare earnings have come up as as other reasons for the declines even though I think it's sort of clear that tariffs are the huge driver here from him. And then the third is a kind of untrumpian refrain about how maybe the stock market isn't as important as it has been.
This this is a kind of a this happens now and again it kind of tends to last until the next upday when Trump tends to revert to form and and tout anytime the market goes up even though those days are few and far between. The through line here is that basically even as we had a stage in this first 100 days where Trump was clearly prioritizing tariffs over the market and the market reaction, he has reverted to form a little bit the last few in the last few weeks to to really kind of dial back and blink on on certain elements of
his tariffs which have a clear market impact that he likes. Well, Rick, I want to bring you in because as Ben said, the fly in the lemon. I I wonder to what extent you think the uh survey data and the voter approval ratings are starting to become perhaps a bigger fly in the lemon than the stock market. Right.
Trump's uh approval rating has declined somewhat. It it hasn't um collapsed. Uh but we're definitely seeing some notable changes. And one of the things that I noticed the most, I compare what's going on with Trump to uh many prior presidents. We've got data going all the way back to the 1970s.
Uh, and Trump's approval rating, uh, is really the only one that has gone kind of gone straight down since he since he took office. Um, Joe Biden at this point, uh, his approval rating was 57% and Trump has fallen down from about 48 at the beginning to about 40%. Uh, worth pointing out that, um, Trump's approval on handling of the economy is now a net negative.
I mean, that's basically the thing that got him elected in 2024 is voters thought he would do a better job of getting uh B the inflation of the Biden presidency under control. And that is flipping. And I uh this is all happening uh before the worst effects of the tariffs actually come into effect. I mean, we're not seeing the price increases yet because a lot of the stuff on store shelves uh was ordered before the tariffs went into effect.
We're not seeing product shortages yet, which seems likely to happen. Uh, some of the other problems. So, Trump is on a downward trajectory and it seems like it's probably going to continue. All right, great overview there, Rick and Ben. Thank you both so much for joining us this morning. Appreciate it. Thank you.
Before we go, I do want to get some final thoughts from Bob Lane joining me in studio. Explosive options technical analyst. Bob, I'd be remiss to let you go without talking about some options plays, especially as we gear up to hear from some of these big tech firms this week. What are you thinking about as a potential play ahead of some of those earnings? Well, I'm looking at names like like Meta Platforms and Amazon for uh two names.
And why am I looking at those names? Those stocks have come down significantly from their recent highs. These are two of the seven mag seven names. And uh Meta will be reporting tomorrow. So I I I look at an options play as a little bit less risk than taking on a uh buying shares of the stock and because you know you're only paying a fraction of the of the uh of the stock price when paying paying up for options.
Now obviously um options are going to be juiced up uh it's always in front of an earnings report. There's four earners reports a year for these companies and and the uncertainty creates a lot of um mis mystery in in the stock and how it's going to go and a lot of demand for those options is going to create a lot of value and those option prices are always um going to be juiced up and accelerated right in front of the earnings report.
So um I'm looking for maybe an at the money play for for Meta and for Amazon. Meta is trading at about what $540 roughly. um Amazon about 185 bucks and I'm looking for something at the money. Um maybe going out a month or two, maybe out to June or even July and and that's going to give us a little bit of time to uh let the stocks move after earnings.
I think that these companies have downbeat earnings earnings expectations right now, especially the analysts who come down and uh and knocked a lot of their uh earnings expectations down. So the bar is low, Maddie, and I think that these companies can uh can deliver. Just about 30 seconds here, but what is the sort of pricing at the moment telling you about how much volatility there might be off the back of these earnings? Enormous amount of volatility right now.
I think uh with the VIX 2526, the market is looking for a one and a half% move. That one and a half% what is that 75 handles on the S&P 500, 300 handles on the NASDAQ. So those are big moves that the market's expecting to see coming from the markets and also on on these individual names.
Implied volatility is through the roof. All right, Bob. Great overview there and great investment ideas for our audience to take away actionable ideas. Thank you so much, Bob, for joining us for the hour. Really appreciate it. Coming up here, we've got wealth. It's dedicated to all of your personal finance needs. Our very own Brad Smith, he's going to have you for the next hour. So stay tuned for more.
Made with  byGlasp