Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
The question on everybody's mind right now is should they be buying today? After last week's runup off of the lows, we're getting that first initial pullback that I talked about that we would see Monday and Tuesday. We saw Nvidia come back a little bit. Is it the right time to buy? Are we still going to run up on Nvidia to around $120? People are still in a high level of fear.
Just a couple weeks ago, that was extreme fear and now it's been backing down to just good old-fashioned fear. But there is yet to return to this market. The fear of missing out. We're not feeling FOMO right now. People are still hedged and very, very cautious. I'm going to go into what the market looks like.
I'm going to recap something I said in my last video. We're going to look at some hot plays and we're going to talk about the number one driving catalyst for today and going into tomorrow, which is Microsoft's earnings. I'm going to give you guys the lines in the sand on that one. This is the Stocks with Josh show.
I appreciate you joining me. I appreciate you for smashing that like and for sharing this video with someone that you want to see begin to better understand the charts, Wall Street, hopefully make some money. We're doing it every single day. I share with you guys what I'm doing with my money. It's not a suggestion for you to buy, sell, or hold.
Hit that subscribe if you need more help understanding and trading these choppy markets. Guys, let's talk a little bit about who's making money and who's getting richer and what strategy they've employed. Talked a lot about it and many of you guys are in the exact same camp. But it does leave a question of how to handle things moving forward.
I'm talking about Warren Buffett strategy. This guys, you know the story, sitting on more cash than they ever have in the history of Birkshshire Hathaway, and they've yet to deploy it. Now, did they perfectly sell the top recently? No. They began to start unwinding their large position last year in 2024 when the market was still moving higher.
And I'm going to tell you, not only did they not sell everything at the top, they unwound slowly that massive position in Apple. They're also not going to perfectly time catching the bottom or catching the falling knife. They're going to begin to slowly add. What exactly are they doing and what lesson could you take from it right now? Well, they're not really trying to time the market.
They carried their portfolio prices higher through the good times. And when they got to the point that those good times were coming to an end and the market was largely going to move sideways or be very very choppy and have massive swings, when they understood that that was ahead of them and that the GDP was slowing down and the economy could over the course of the next uh year and a half begin to uh compress, then they got out. They got out.
Now they're holding this cash. And here's what I think they're going to do from past observations. When they are sure that the storm has passed, even though they might not perfectly catch the bottom, they're going to slowly get back in. And they're making money simply by rolling their large positions into bonds and other safer asset assets.
They're simply not exposing themselves to the chop and to the turmoil. They're just taking a break from the market. Now, there's a lot of people like myself who are cashed up and they're worried that they're not going to catch the bottom because we hit the bottom and I talked a lot about it.
The Magnificent 7 all got oversold. Things got really, really cheap. And I did tell everybody I am definitely going to nibble at these levels. But I didn't employ everything back again because I believe that there is still some pretty significant risk on the table and we have a situation. I've talked about it in the past.
We've got a debt problem and which will only get sorted out if the Fed gives a very dramatic cut. If the Fed gives a cut at the level that Washington needs, it likely would panic the market and we would see additional selling, which would simply mean that we have a lower low still to make in 2025. So, I took the time to outline it and I talked about the fact that between now and June, we're still trending higher cautiously.
There's going to be pullbacks, but in my opinion, all of those pullbacks may be worth taking a position on. They may be worth taking a position for a swing trade as I believe we're going higher. I gave the target of 120 on Nvidia. And today, I'm going to talk about Microsoft and my targets there.
Uh, but the bottom line is these are only swing trades for me. It's not necessarily long-term investing because I believe between now and June after we've gotten through all of corporate earnings, the risk is to the bears in this situation because together with decent corporate earnings, which we don't have them all yet. All we really have is Netflix, Tesla, and Google.
But the risk is to the bears because we could begin to see the tariff war get deescalated. We could see the Fed cut rates. And these types of things could cause the market to explode higher. So, I'm still of the mind frame that we're chopping up and pullbacks are worth trading to the upside. And between now and June, we're going to see a lot of new local highs or pivot tops.
Then after June through the summer, June and July, we're largely going to continue in distribution, which means we're going to move sideways. And then after that, we're going to begin to get more data, and we're going to see more of an impact of how much the tariff war really slowed the economy down.
And we're going to see Wall Street attempt to derisk in anticipation of that because I want to remind you guys that they trade in advance. So, they're going to begin to derisk, go down from these recent local pivot highs that I'm saying will occur sometime at the end of June, down another 15%, making a lower low. The big warning that I gave in that video is that a lot of retail people will completely fear the apocalypse and they'll expect a bigger drop, a a 20 or 30% drop from that pivot high and they're just simply not going to buy
that next dip. For me, that's when we've had a lot more time and a lot more data to process. And I believe that around that time is going to be another big buying opportunity for those who want to go long and put cash to work, not just for a swing trade, but for the next couple years.
So that's what I'm doing with my money, and that's how I believe the market's going to act moving forward. It's a reminder to a lot of people that get caught up day trading that the market often moves slower than they're thinking. between now and June chopping higher between June and July and the end of July and the summer chopping sideways between the end of the summer and the uh middle of the third quarter or the end of the third quarter.
We're going to see more selling pressure and then I think we'll see recovery again between October and the end of the year. And if you understand what I just outlined, you probably heard that largely this is going to be a very sideways and choppy year where we end up a little bit higher, maybe depending on how good that future data comes in to where we started.
And so this year is largely going to be a slightly up year to a flat year. and it's not going to be the apocalypse that the super bears hope for and may not be that super bullish uptrend. Don't be anxious about holding cash. I personally believe that with all of the dynamics that we have going on in the market, if it was just stagflation alone, which in my opinion has been pretty well established, that inflation is going to remain sticky and we're still dealing with the fact that the economy is not growing at the same rate that it had in 2023 and 2024. With all
of those factors in place along with the global supply chain broken as it is right now, the fact is 2025 is not going to be a huge growth year. So, expect sideways and buy the big dips, but we are not dipping right now. We're likely testing the top of the range. And I gave that to you guys on the spy at around 570.
And I've talked about minimums on Nvidia around 120. And today I'm going to give you a trade setup for Microsoft's earnings tonight. Before I do that, let me talk about the daily A+ trade setups that I provide the stocks with Josh Discord every single day. These are very simple. I provide a minimum of three about a half an hour before the market opens.
And these are the same trade setups that I take every day. Today I took Nvidia. It was a very easy win. As we broke above my breakout price, I took it up for a nice little 15%, not huge. I got in, I cashed out early. As you guys know, I often take a larger position, looking for a smaller percentage gain.
And if you go into my trade setup for Nvidia today, there is a rejection play. Every trade setup has got three things that you want to watch out for. A breakout scenario, a breakdown scenario, and a rejection scenario. today. The breakout and the rejection both worked for a nice little scalp and an easy win. But if you don't take my trade setups, you can also trade alongside me on Wednesdays and Fridays in the top tier.
But I also have a crown trader named Spy Lord that you can trade with on the other three days, all levels of the Discord. And today they booked four fat wins. Come and check it out. Don't trade alone. learn to chart and start trading in a community that is educational and helpful. I'll leave a link in the top pinned comment.
It's the name of the show is the name of the website www.stockswithjosh.com. Before I get into Microsoft, I'm going to give you guys one important indicator that you need to be watching, which is the VIX. We spiked when things got absolutely overwhelmingly bearish. we spiked all the way up to 60, which at the time I said in almost every video after that that this was a huge move up and that oftent times when we reached that level of extreme fear, it was time to buy.
And if you look at the VIX now, you can see that we've been slowly coming off of that high and things are calming down. And in that environment, stocks can go higher. Now, here's where it gets interesting, and I want you guys to pay attention to this because if we get down beneath 20 on the VIX, it means the market's going to go back into rally mode.
And as you can see, the trend right now is that the markets are clearly calming down. Does it mean that they're ripping higher? No. They're just slowly unwinding that fear trade, but that will and could eventually lead to FOMO and people wanting to buy as the markets begin to going back risk on. All right, let's jump into Microsoft and what I see happening in the charts right now.
We're going to break down the three things that I often talk to you guys about. What are they? Price, volume, and momentum. Those are the three indicators that tell us how the stock is fairing and which direction it's going to go and whether or not we should be buying long or selling what we've got. And what does the price of Microsoft tell us right now? Well, we're steadily as we get closer to earnings, creeping up to a very important breakout zone right around $400.
And so, the price has clearly moved off of the lows and is creeping higher. And even today, we've had a nice little steady move up. But are we going to get these earnings and is it going to get smacked down? Well, we get a better story when we start looking at the volume. We see that there actually has been a rise in buying volume as we move closer to earnings.
It is clearly showing accumulation and not panic. I want you to take notice that the largest green candle volume bar occurred at the most recent low. This is classic institutional defense zone buying and that happened in the 345 to 355 range. If, and this is such an important point, if when we get above 400 today, we see a surge in volume, then our target ahead is absolutely going to be a minimum move to 420.
And that'll happen in a shorter time frame and can be very very profitable. But alternatively, if we get up above that 400 and volume seems weak and stagnant, then we've got that rejection play at hand. It means that there was not high conviction to own this stock above that critical level and we need to go on defense and watch for a move back below 384.
And if that move occurs on volume, then this is going all the way back to 360. Now, I'm optimistic. And the last thing that we look at is the momentum indicators like the MACD and the RSI. And what are they telling us right now? Well, we've had a clean bullish crossover confirmed with an expanding histogram. This is suggesting a continued uptrend and it's around this time when fear still exists that those momentum indicators and that stealth buying begin to give us a reversal story.
But retail doesn't normally want to believe it at the moment. This with the momentum indicators and the volume and the price, it's all leaning bullish. And so if we're going to regard the technicals and if we're going to follow them, then we're going to hold some risk on Microsoft going into earnings. Now, here's what we need to watch after earnings.
We need to see whether or not we get rejected at the 60 on the RSI on the daily time frame. Okay? Because if it loses all volume and all momentum and we don't continue above the 60 on the RSI, then it means that this wasn't good, earnings didn't come out well. So, the technicals are not meant to provide you an absolute green light, red light to to risk, right? You have to look at them and consider, are they at least going in the direction you think that you should take a trade.
In this case, they are actually supporting my overall narrative that things are more bullish right now than the bears think and that the risk is on the side of the bears. We're going to have to see what uh we get from Microsoft earnings and I'm going to tell you what the analysts are watching for and expecting.
They want to see Azour cloud growth accelerating. Last quarter it missed the whisper numbers, but it missed it only slightly. So, they want to begin to see that reacelerate. And that's probably for sure the number one thing that would cause Microsoft to rip and get above that 405 and be on its way to 420. Then they want to see AI revenue impact.
They are the quiet AI king and investors want hard data on whether or not it's paying off. And the third thing is also super important. They want to know if they have a raised outlook for the remainder of 2025 and 2026 or whether or not there is warning of additional slowdown because at that point the stock will sell off and it'll drag the rest of big tech with them.
Right now, Wall Street in my opinion is taking some risk on Microsoft and giving them the benefit of the doubt going into this earnings. And we know that by the quiet confidence that we're seeing in the volume and the momentum indicators. If we don't make that local higher high above 420, then we are going to be continuing in an overall downtrend and this was simply another deadcat bounce event.
It' be very interesting to see how it all turns out. If you are doing smaller swing trades, I think you give Microsoft the benefit of the doubt. If you're a long-term investor and Microsoft does well, you're going to feel a little bit left behind, especially if we continue to chop higher, as I've believed that we will. All right, guys.
I'm going to leave it there. Thank you for joining me. Uh, make sure that you check out the Stocks with Josh Discord. Thank you for hitting that like. Thank you for joining the community by hitting the subscribe. I'll see you all in the next video. Tomorrow I'll be back in my studio where we will do another live trade session with the fam. Talk to you then.
Peace and blessings. Take care. Bye-bye.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp