Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English - CC1
English (auto-generated)
all that breaking news coupled with earnings as well. So a lot to discuss. Kevin Greene is with us. What are you watching here. Good morning Kevin Greene. Good morning Nicole. Yeah definitely. I mean we see we're seeing around 20% of stocks in the S&P 500 in the green right now. So a little bit of, you know, selling activity taking place.
But after this decent run that we've had over the last five trading sessions here, it's not out of the ordinary that we actually do get a little bit of a pullback, especially when we have some economic data. It's going to be hitting the headlines here in the next 30 minutes or so. We have JOLTS data and then we'll have consumer confidence data.
And then tonight we'll have President Trump actually addressing the nation. I think the market's going to really be looking into that. But when you're looking at the longer term time frame chart here, 3600 still going to be our area of resistance kind of matches with that 50 day moving average that we kind of talked about yesterday.
The candle that we actually had yesterday was called a long leg doji. That just basically means that we had a pretty much neutral to potentially a bearish reversal reversal signal here. Bears try to knock the market down, but we were able to recover on the intraday basis here. But that is kind of like a let's just say like a yellow light type of candle structure here.
And if we actually do get a break, if I'm looking at it from an intraday standpoint here, the 5000 level first one, that's going to be the area of immediate support that we want to be able to hold here. Looks like we are trying to bounce off. But if we break below 5642, the downside is really what I'm looking at. And then to the upside, the first area of resistance for today, 5560.
And then we also had the 5600 level earlier this morning when we were looking at morning movers here. He actually had some bullish activity when it came to the options flow. And now it was early in the session. Obviously there's a lot that's going to be going on here today, but the market is still positioning for a potential move to the upside here, which is definitely possible.
I think we probably get to a little bit more of an area of resistance here to the upside when we see another, let's say 100 points, 80 points to the upside in the S&P 500, that will be a critical area of resistance for us to be able to match here. But overall, once again a little bit of a rotation top heavy. Amazon's getting hit because of some of the commentary from the white House here.
Nvidia got a little bit of a pullback this morning. So if we don't have the Mega-cap names participating you're going to need to have some of these other smaller sectors really trying to outperform. And right now it just seems like that's not really the case. But anything's possible going throughout this day. And so much as the markets are opening here we're seeing consumer staples down, materials higher.
Honeywell Sherwin-Williams, Boeing and Salesforce are leading Amazon, Procter and Gamble McDonald's Coke to the downside. Those are just some of the names here on the Dow Jones Industrial Average on the move. And you're also watching the VIX which is now sitting at 25.45. You know really behaving quite nicely not showing any signs of extreme volatility.
Not any time soon. Yeah I would say it's still a little bit elevated compared to where the average is. But you're right it's stagnating. Right. And we're seeing it kind of stalling out. Now you could say that that's a good thing in some respects. Maybe the market's kind of still on edge for the most part in the near term.
But we've been able to manage and digest. On the other side of that you could say okay, a stalling out. Why is it not really crushing lower here? And so what I'm looking at is that that VIX minus the front month VIX futures contract seeing a small a little backwardation. It's still in a backwardation phase here. But you're seeing a small little uptick here today but nothing out of the ordinary.
We start seeing that that line actually continuing to move back to the upside here. That probably is going to signify that we might have some additional volatility and selling pressure coming back into the market. But you're right. You're seeing stabilization and volatility. We probably will not see a massive crush in volatility Nicole, until we get after this week just because of the economic data.
And hopefully the economic data comes in line with the Street's expectations here. Relieve some of that worry, especially when you're looking at the jobs market. So overall once again we're looking actually pretty. We're looking okay. I would still get a little bit cautious that maybe we have a little bit of a pullback just because of the run that we've had.
But I don't see anything major in the positioning on the options front right now that says we're going to have a massive, you know, 3%, 4% move to the downside. We have some bearish positioning on Friday, but I did not see a lot of that really being followed up yesterday in in yesterday's session. And last but not least we're looking at bond yields.
Look 4.22%. Not bad when you want it to come. If you want yields to come down right. Yeah. You want the yields to come down for the right reasons. Right. And right now we are actually seeing that move to the downside on a technical basis. We do have the MacD in a bearish formation. It did actually have that 12 EMA crossing below the 26.
And that 12 EMA actually just went below that zero line. So that means that the market or we might be seeing yields maybe moving a little bit lower here. I'm not sure if we're actually going to see the extremes that we saw around 3.9%, 3.95% or so. That was fairly aggressive. Market would probably be a little bit concerned if we got back to that level.
But you can make the case that 4.1% could be that bottom end of this range. And if we're actually able to hover around 4.1% to the downside in our range to around 4.5%, I think the market's going to be okay with that. The stabilization in yields, stabilization in dollars in the dollar really gives the equity market a little bit more confidence that they're able to reprice the fundamentals and then try to readjust and try to move higher here.
So nothing really aggressive on the yield front yet. But we have a lot of economic data. And if the data comes in a little bit negative Nicole this week I would say yields probably have a little bit more of a direction to the downside here. The last thing I will kind of comment on consumer confidence today is going to be the day that do we see the market really still focusing on the soft data, or are we going to transition to more of the hard data? JOLTS is going to be a very delayed and stale number.
It's going to be pre-liberation day, so probably should be discounted significantly for the market. But consumer confidence is the one that I'm going to keep my eye out on, just to see if the market's really trying to shift to say, look, we know that the consumer right now is not feeling great. Purchasing managers right now are not feeling great, but are we seeing it in the data.
And if we're not seeing it in the hard data yet, the market might find that a little bit optimistic and that might be able to stabilize us and hold the floor here for equities. Yeah. And you know, as you talk about the lower yields that we have that helps technology to a certain extent because they're always borrowing a lot of money.
And it gives them some clarity going forward. Nasdaq could we have today and tomorrow could eke out a gain for this month of April. We're down about a half a percent on the index for the month. This may be the one of the four indices that can squeeze out a gain, but we'll have to see. We have
Made with ❤️ byGlasp