Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
Welcome to the rap. I'm Caroline Woods here to take you through today's trading action. Hopes of a trade deal sent stocks higher on Tuesday. The Dow led the day with a threequarter of a percent rally. The Nasdaq, S&P, and Russell all tacked on at least half a percent. Every sector except energy gained on the session.
Financials and materials saw a near 1% rally. Consumer staples added 3/4 of 1%. Tariffs for car parts are set to go into effect on Friday, but President Trump will reportedly sign three executive orders Tuesday evening that could lessen the blow to US automakers. Those orders are expected to include a reimbursement for the 25% tariff on auto parts up to 3.
75% of the value of domestically produced cars. Commentary from Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik revealed that US cars with 85% of US-made parts will see no tariffs. Among companies paying close attention to these developments, General Motors, which has delayed its conference call to Thursday and pulled guidance to assess the tariff impact.
Shares were down 4% at today's lows before rebounding. Elsewhere in tariff headlines, Amazon denied a report that the company considered showing import charges on its final checkout page. The Mag 7 company thought about the move for its Hall website, but said the idea was never approved and is not going to happen for Hall or Amazon.
Initial headlines from a Punch Bowl news report caught attention from the White House, which said the move would be a hostile and political act. Spotify bounced back significantly off its lows after earnings underwhelmed investors. The streaming service saw a 12% uptick in premium subscribers and 10% increase in monthly active users.
both about in line with Wall Street's expectations. However, Spotify also posted a bottomline miss. Spotify said the short term may bring some noise, but that it remains confident in its long-term outlook. Spotify stock is still up 100% over the last year. Here's what investors need to look out for tomorrow.
Meta Platforms and Microsoft earnings will take center stage after the closing bell. We'll also get reports from Qualcomm, Humanana, Caterpillar, eBay, and Etsy. On the economic calendar, we'll get the Fed's preferred inflation gauge, a read on GDP, and pending home sales data. That'll do it for the rap. I'm Caroline Woods. Remember to tune in 247 to schwabnetwork.com.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp