Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English - CC1
English (auto-generated)
day again. What is this, the fifth or sixth day up? Larry Tentarelli is with us, chief technical strategist for blue Chip daily trend Report. Larry, nice to see you. Thank you for being here. Nicole. Great to see you. What do you think about the markets? What are you feeling? How what's happening here. It's acting much better now.
I think two and a half weeks ago, I think we put in a major low into the S&P 500. We had the highest weekly volume in 14 years and it was a 13% upside reversal week. So from the dead lows 13% higher. That's indicative of how many bear markets have ended in the past. And then last week we had another very strong breadth thrust higher.
And it looks like this week we've got intraday dips that are being bought. It's all very bullish price action. So it's interesting so that you think that the low may be in. I mean I mean you're not the someone else said that today as well. And people start to question that. I mean there are plenty of people who think we should go back down there and try again.
Is this buying opportunities now? Are you seeing buying opportunities? What kind? Yeah. So well, there's two ways to look at it from a technical perspective. I do believe that the lows are in. There's three things that we have to pay attention to. I don't want to see the trade tariffs walk back. I don't want to see that.
You know any walk back there. We need to hit earnings for the Mag seven stocks. And we need the economy to avoid a recession. So if we hit all of those three things I think that the lows are absolutely in. Tech has been leading. So stocks like Palantir, CrowdStrike, Netflix have been acting very well. Gold and gold miners our favorite ideas.
And believe it or not, defensive stocks. Stocks like tobacco stocks defensive health care stocks. So I'm seeing strength across the board. Wow. When you think about these names like Palantir, CrowdStrike and Netflix, are those longer term plays. I mean can people be buying into those. Or maybe dollar cost averaging now and going forward for the long term? Absolutely.
So those are your true leaders right now. And what's happened with those stocks is they've performed much better than the Mega-caps. Apple Amazon Microsoft. These stocks got to be very over owned. And what you're seeing is those stocks right now are still below the 200 day moving average. Netflix just made new all time highs very strong.
Palantir is underneath the highs. CrowdStrike is very close. So what it shows is that investors are moving into these stocks that are, you know, smaller market caps that they see potentially bigger growth going forward. And I think it's a great idea. Like you said, dollar cost average. Some of these stocks broke out pretty sharply like Netflix.
So what I've been doing is scaling into new positions, maybe start a half of a position, and then over the next week or two, look to put some of the money to work. And then what about something like Bitcoin? I heard one of the money managers talking upstairs saying, yeah, don't chase Bitcoin. I mean, now that it's at 95,000 it's going to go back down again.
Then I have other guests who come on and say 120,000 by the end of the year, 250 by next summer. So that's something that you're watching maybe a Bitcoin ETF. What do you recommend. So everybody has a view. I focus on the charts. And Bitcoin broke out at $90,000. So over 90,000 was a technical buy signal for Bitcoin.
It recently held right around the 40 week moving average. So the trend is up. The price is acting well. So I want to be long bitcoin here. And on any pullbacks I like the ETF IB t o the I bit. Yes because there are a few now. I mean there's so many that got approved. You know why does Ibit stand out to you versus the other ETFs.
I focus on the highest volume ETFs. And the last I looked, Ibert was the highest volume in that liquidity. And so you feel like that's the most accurate because it has the most volume. Right I want to follow the institutions. So wherever I see the highest volume, that tells me that's where the institutional money is. And I want to follow them.
Theoretically, that's the smart money, right? Let's talk about Tesla, which is at 285 today. That high that we remember was for $488. That was a mid December. Where do you think Tesla could be headed? Tesla's a very interesting stock here. So I started a new position yesterday. So I was fortunate I did buy Tesla right after the election.
So we participated in that move up closed it out. So Tesla right now is showing some promise. It closed over the 50 day moving average last week for the first time in four months. It's just below the 200 day moving average. It just tested it yesterday. And it's the first of the Mag seven stocks to really be testing that 200 day moving average right now.
It's not a high conviction chart yet. So it's not a confirmed uptrend like Palantir. Netflix if it closes over $300, I would look for 350 pretty soon. And a lot could be based on what happens with earnings in the next few days. Yeah, I mean, when you talked about Netflix, that has been stellar. I mean, that one is I mean that's got to be above certain moving averages because it hit new highs. Yeah.
Because you said this is the only mag seven is Netflix not in the mag. Netflix is not in the mag seven G. It used to be in Fang. It was in Fang. It's not in the mag seven, right? But this is an unbelievable chart here. When you look at this six months up 50% for Netflix, then you also have the gold miners. Gold itself. Tell me the play there.
Because gold did hit its records. Gold hit new all time highs. Gold miners just broke out to 12 year highs. And I think that gold and miners are really a tariff play. I think they're a weak US dollar play. And what we've seen is as this tariff news cycle has accelerated, the dollar sold off quite a bit.
Gold is a direct beneficiary. Gold miners have not caught up. So gold made new record highs. Gold miners are still well below the all time highs, but both are in uptrends. So I want to have positions. There were long both of those. And you would use Gdx for that, right? Probably is my favorite. And what else are you looking at? So I don't miss anything.
Sure. So there's a lot and there's a lot of things that I'm not looking at. I'm still not a fan away from staying away. I'm still not a fan of the mag seven yet. Okay. I want to see what happens with earnings over the next few days. But keep in mind all of those stocks are below the 200 day moving average.
But so I focus on, as you know, the strongest stocks wherever they may be stocks like Berkshire Hathaway very very strong tobacco stocks Philip Morris. Altria just reported earnings. That's holding up very well. British American tobacco. These are in very strong uptrends low PE high dividend. I think British American Tobacco has a 7% dividend yield.
So there's really uptrends across the board. The only place I'm not looking too much are banks and energy stocks. Right now. I'm kind of staying away from the cyclicals for the time being. And do you think in the end I mean that the market the S&P and the Nasdaq, do you think you think we get back to new highs at some point.
That's a good question. I mean does that happen this year or next year. I'm I'm not so much in the new highs right away camp yet. So to get to new highs we really need these mega-caps to turn back up. And they've got some work to do. So I'm in the lows are in and we can buy selectively. But I'm not betting on new highs as of yet.
All right Larry it's so great to see you. I'm glad you were here in person to tell us all about these. Thank you very much. Larry Tentarell
Made with ❤️ byGlasp