Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
Markets have recovered a bit from the losses over the past few weeks, but a lot can change in a short period of time. At the highs, the S&P 500 touched 6,147 in midFebruary, but subsequently fell to a 52- week low of 4835 on April 7th, meaning in less than 2 months time, the S&P 500 fell more than 20%.
That is a massive fall for such a short period of time. We're not talking about an individual stock. We're talking about the largest index, the most watched index in the world, made up of 500 different companies, weighted heavily towards technology and the Magnificent 7. Speaking of the Mag 7, during that period, the Round Mag 7 ETF fell nearly 30%.
There's still plenty to be concerned about with trade policy tensions, global tensions, and the sell America trade going on. Now, I'm not sitting here saying I'm trading out and and selling out of all of my positions because let's be honest, that's certainly not the case for a lot of investors here, but we're starting to see the implications of a lot of this trade war that's been going on.
Looking at this chart here from the Financial Times, the US markets are off to their worst start compared to their global peers in more than 30 years. Shipping volume from China to the US is plummeting at a steep pace. And according to the Port of LA, incoming shipments next month are expected to drop by nearly 40%.
These are real concerns that can definitely impact GDP and a lot of the damage has already been done. Companies can't just trade gears that fast. There's investment that has to be made to onshore a lot of manufacturing and things like that, and that could take years. As such, if you are an investor that has some concerns, rightfully so, you may need to maneuver your portfolio a bit.
That doesn't mean we need to sell out of everything, but there are certain segments that can perform quite well in slower economic times or even during a recession. As such, in today's video, we're going to talk about some of those stocks and ETFs, and we're going to talk about five stocks to consider buying in the month of May to bring stability to your portfolio during these uncertain times.
But like always, before we unveil these, I would truly appreciate it if you could show your appreciation by simply checking that like button down below, subscribe to the channel to help push this to a bigger audience, and let's jump into it. Hey everyone, Mark Rousen here back for another video.
As always, I'm a CPA and not a financial adviser, so please do not take this as financial advice. And before we begin, let me quickly thank today's video sponsor, which is the Mly Fool. The Mly Fool has a ton of great resources and products available for investors of all different levels. And right now, you can check out their 10 best stocks to buy simply going to fool.com/mark.
All right, let's jump back into this very important video taking a look at five positions to consider during the month of May. Beginning with stock number one, which is going to be Berkshire Hathaway, stock ticker BRK.B. Yes, this is Warren Buffett. But when it comes to Berkshire, although it is an individual stock, it's much more aligned with an ETF because they own many private businesses and they have their wellfollowed equity portfolio.
The company currently has a market cap of $1.1 trillion and over the past 12 months, shares are up over 30% and year-to- date up over 15%. Both from a 12-month perspective and a year-to- date, Bergkshire is easily outperforming the S&P 500. And early on, dating back to the past few years, Buffett had been getting some flak for even from the likes of me for selling and raising a ton of cash.
But he has ramped up that selling pressure and raising a record level of crash, more than 320 billion dollars over the past few years. And during the past few years, Bergkshire has underperformed the S&P 500. But of late, as the S&P has pulled back, it has all changed in the favor of Berkshire. Looking at valuation, when it comes to Berkshire, it's definitely not a cheap stock right now.
Hence the outperformance. A lot of investors have already been pouring money. Why? Because it is a defensive, a balanced investment. Looking at the chart here, you can see the stock moving up and to the right, which is what we like to see as investors. But the 100 day moving average is the area I am targeting to buy, which gives me a target buy price of near $500 per share when talking about Berkshire Hathway.
And that leads us to stock number two, which is Proctor and Gamble, stock ticker PG. When you're looking at an economy that is slowing or maybe even falling into a recession, the thing that you want to talk about or think about as an investor is where do consumers need to spend money. They don't need to go out and buy that new car or that new wardrobe.
They don't need to go out and buy that new pair of shoes. What they do need is they need the lights on. They need the gas on. So, utilities is going to be key. They need food on the table. So, consumer staples is going to be important. Hence, Proctor and Gamble, one of the largest consumer staple stocks on the market today.
The company currently has a market cap of $380 billion and over the past 12 months, shares are exactly even and year-to date down just 3%. Shares of Proctor and Gamble have been under a little bit of pressure. Again, Proctor and Gamble is not a very volatile stock. It's not going to knock your socks off with growth and it's not going to collapse by any means.
But some of the pressure is leaning due in part to their recent earnings that they reported, which some of the guidance moving forward left investors hoping for more. But where a lot of pressure is right now is on tariffs, which is where Proctor and Gamble, where do they supply a lot of their products from? Could be China.
However, when it comes to Proctor and Gamble, they do have pricing power, highquality products. they should be able to pass some of those higher prices on to consumers. And over the years, Proctor and Gamble has been a company that generates strong amounts of free cash flow. And over the trailing 12 months, Proctor and Gamble has generated 15 billion.
And what does that do? It helps buy back stock and pay a growing dividend. Proctor and Gamble is a dividend king, meaning they have increased their dividend for more than 50 consecutive years. But Proctor and Gamble, they have done it for nearly 70 consecutive years. The dividend currently yields 2.6% and they have a 5-year dividend growth rate of 6%.
Looking at valuation, next year's earnings are expected to be $76 per share, giving the stock a forward PE multiple of just 22.8 times, which is slightly below the company's 10-year average of 24 1.5 times. So, you are getting a small discount. From an EV to Ebida perspective, shares trade at just 16 and a half times, which is below the company's 5-year average of 17 and a half times.
And looking at the chart here, you can see the stock has found some solid support over the past 12 months around $155 per share, which is an area I will be looking to target to buy the stock. And that leads us to stock number three, which is going to be SoFi Technology, stock ticker Sofi. And leading into 2025 under the current administration, one of their main focal points has been deregulation.
And there's not a segment out there or a sector out there that jumps for joy hearing that more than financials, especially SoFi. Again, not all financials are created equal because if we do endure slower economic times or fall into a recession, that could mean maybe slower volume for credit card companies.
But in the eyes of SoFi, this could be huge for their growth. The company currently has a market cap of $15 billion and over the past 12 months, check out these numbers. The stock is up more than 60%. However, year-to date down roughly 15%. Shares have been soaring of late, but if we go back from the start of 2022 to the end of 24, shares of SoFi drastically underperformed the S&P 500.
But what are some reasons to be optimistic about SoFi? Number one, they target highincome young adults. Number two is going to be centered around the advantage that they have from a technology perspective compared to legacy banks. And number three, which could be the largest, is due in part to student loans are all back on track.
This is a company that is expecting strong topline revenue growth in the coming years. And over the next two years, analysts are looking for roughly 20% topline growth. Analysts are expecting 50 cents of EPS next year, giving the stock a poultry 25x multiple, which is extremely low given the growth. This is a stock that's not currently in my portfolio as of this video, but come May, don't be surprised if you see it in the near term.
And if you're interested in seeing my entire portfolio and stock deep dives and staying up with the market at a one-stop shop, definitely sign up for my newsletter, the stock investor's edge. You can do it for free and join our Discord. Check out the link in the Discord down in the description below.
Given that this stock is a bit of a higher beta stock, it can be a lot more volatile and we're on unshaky ground right now when it comes to the stability of the market. Hence, the approach that I'm going to take when it comes to SoFi is not just buying it outright, but instead taking an option approach, selling a cash secured put with a strike price in the area of $9 to $10.
The premiums aren't huge on this stock, but it's also a low price stock. And you can see that $9 to$10 range based on this chart right here has been a decent area of support for the stock. And that leads us to stock number four, which is going to be Alibaba Group, stock ticker BABA. And what we just talked about with SoFi was the approach of options.
That's the same exact approach I'm going to take when it comes to Alibaba. Alibaba is a Chinese company and I try not to own Chinese companies because given the fact that the government can step in at any point, something we saw prior to the pandemic and I just didn't sit right with me. However, right now we are in an arms race to build the best and most powerful AI platforms, the US and China.
China's clearly behind, but getting their hands on Nvidia made chips has helped them close the gap. And with China determined to take the lead, that is definitely going to benefit the likes of Alibaba. The company currently has a market cap of $283 billion. And over the past 12 months, shares are up 55%, year-to- date, up 40%.
As I mentioned at the start of this video, the US is off to its worst start in more than 30 years as compared to its peers. And China, after a few horrible years in their market post pandemic, is finally starting to move in the right direction. When it comes to Alibaba, more specifically, they're a diversified business. They have e-commerce, cloud, advertising, subscription, and so much more.
They could be thought of in many ways as the Chinese version of Amazon. Looking at valuation, next year's earnings are expected to be $10.15 per share, which amounts to 13.5% growth year-over-year. And that gives the stock a forward PE of just 11.8 times, giving it also a PEG ratio below 1, making it look that much more intriguing.
But again, this is a stock I will likely play with options instead of buying outright. Looking at the chart here, you can see the stock is up against resistance, hovering around $120 per share. So, I will need to see a bit of a pullback first, but then I will be targeting a cash secured put around $95 per share.
And that leads us to stock number five, which actually isn't a stock, it's an ETF, and that is the JP Morgan Equity Premium Income ETF. Stock ticker JPI. So, a bit of cheating here, but again, with Jeppy, it's another way for those that are concerned about the near and medium-term economy and US markets.
Jeppy is a great way to not only add a solid amount of cash flow but defensive stability in many ways because when it comes to Jeeppy the way that they are set up is they sell out of the money S&P 500 call options. They also own underlying assets but when the index comes down the profitability of those option goes up which means they have more money to pass on to shareholders which means that distribution yield increases.
When it comes to Jeeppy, they currently have assets under management of $ 38 billion and over the past 12 months, shares are down 2% year-to- date down 4%. That is just the share amount there, not the total return, including the distribution. Jeeppy is an actively managed ETF, the largest actively managed ETF with a big emphasis, as I mentioned, on selling options centered around the S&P 500.
So, the intrigue behind Jeppy is that high distribution yield. Early on when Jeepy first launched that distribution yield was well north of 10%. And when S&P 500 as I mentioned earlier comes down it's more profitable to the likes of Jeppy. So right now during that shaky period and the S&P 500 pulling back their option selling has been extra profitable which you can expect a higher distribution payout in the coming months if that continues.
Speaking of the distribution, the yield currently sits above 8%. Which can help shield your portfolio during these uncertain times. The ETF also has an expense ratio of 0.35% which is actually much lower considering it's a actively managed ETF. Jeep is not a position that I plan to hold long-term, but in uncertain periods and if there's an area for me to park cash, I look to Jeppy or even the likes of Jeep Q as a place to park it.
So there we just looked at five different positions for you to consider in the month of May during these shaky periods. I showed you ways that I'm going to utilize options. I showed you ETFs and individual stocks. Down in the comments section, let me know which of these five examples that I went through today do you like best and could you see yourself potentially adding to your portfolio in May? And if you haven't done so, hit that like button down below, subscribe to the channel, and share this video with a friend so that we can continue to
push our story out to all and not leave any retail investor behind. Thanks so much for the support, and we'll see you in the next one. Take care.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp