Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English - CC1
English (auto-generated)
Alex coffee, many thanks. Good to see you. Now it's time for this morning's trade. And we're watching visa. Visa reports its earnings after the bell. And we have a preview here with Caroline Woods. Good to see you. Good to see you too. Yes you're right. Visa reports after the bell today we'll get a read on credit card spending trends.
We know how consumers are feeling based on the consumer sentiment data we've been getting, but we know there's not always a direct correlation between how they're feeling and what they're doing. So these numbers will give us more insight into that. We'll also get Mastercard numbers later in the week.
On Thursday morning, we did already hear from American Express, which gives us a read on the more affluent consumer. They had said card member spending, credit performance and demand for all of their premium products continued to be strong across their customer base and consistent, or in many cases, better than what they saw in 2024.
So pretty positive on that front. That being said, their card members, as they say themselves, are not reflective of the full economy quite like Visa's are. So when visa last reported in January, they did highlight healthy spending during the holiday season, improving trends in payment volume and in cross-border volume.
Also improving trends in process transactions growth. So we'll see what they say now, especially with those cross-border transactions. Given reports of slowing U.S. Inbound travel, the weaker US dollar amidst all of these trade tensions. So I think that will be important in terms of the actual numbers. We're looking for adjusted EPs of $2.
68 on revenue of $9.56 billion. That would represent 9% year over year growth. Visa's payment volume for the fiscal second quarter is expected to be $3.4 trillion. That's up more than 7% year over year. In terms of the current quarter outlook, Zacks says EPs of $2.83 on revenue of around $9.86 billion, which would be up about 11% year over year.
We'll see if they give any updates to full year outlook given tariff and economic concerns. Amex did maintain their full year outlook, but obviously, as I said, different kind of, you know, customer base there. I did see an analyst over at SSR say that Visa's international business could be slower than expected, saying the tariffs won't just affect tourism, but they'll have an impact on global ecommerce, which accounts for 40% of Visa's cross-border volume.
So we'll pay close attention to that as well. Visa is up about 2/10 of a percent today. They've been faring better than the overall market if you take a look. Up 7% year to date, outperforming Mastercard and Amex as well, about 26% over the past one year. But if you take a look at the proximity from that 52 week high, about about 8% away from that so far is high.
And so at this point now, so much of this depends on the economy, how the consumer spends, the businesses that they're spending, tariffs, the consumer, the economy, things that we just were talking about and what I haven't really mentioned much in the last hour or so is fed, fed uncertainty. If you lower rates, that could be good for folks who have credit card balances and they're using their credit cards a lot.
So the fed could also, if they have some clarity, that could help. That's if we get further fed cuts as well. Obviously the expectation is we won't see that next week. It seems like June is the next time, so we'll see if analysts ask visa about, you know, interest rates and the outlook there.
I will say if you take a look at the breakdown heading into this report, obviously investors pretty upbeat about visa based on the stock price performance. Analysts are as well 79% of analysts rate visa as a buy. Heading into this report. The median price target is 388, so about $50 higher than where it's currently trading.
And if you compare that to Mastercard, it's pretty similar. 76% of analysts rated as a buy. American Express not so much. The majority of analysts, almost 60% are in the hold camp there. So visa I guess the analysts the most bullish on visa. If you take a look at the buy percentages. All right. Did she say trading. All right.
We heard you say about where it's currently trading 3.38. So thank you for that Caroline Woods details there on visa. Could look ahead. And now Tim Bigham joins us of Options Strategist by alerts to take a look at this name and how you would approach a name like this. In an example trade please. Yeah absolutely.
And you know visa certainly bounced nicely off that 305 level once again. So has put in support kind of similar to the overall market here going forward. So not really looking for fireworks to the upside Post-earnings I don't think it will be threatening the all time highs at all here, even with a good number, but I think it could creep a little bit higher towards that kind of 350 level where it stalled out prior options market, implying about a 4% move, which would correlate right with that 350 strike price as well. So I'm kind of
guardedly bullish here. More capturing vol with this trade, going out, buying the traditional May 16th expiration, 350 calls selling this week's 350 calls, paying about a buck 65 for that. More importantly, really able to buy a five under 30 out at the traditional Maes in two weeks and sell over a 55 here to hedge with.
So capturing some very nice term structure, especially on a percentage basis. And it lines up right with that kind of technical overhang resistance at 350 and the expected market maker move up or boundary right around 350 as well. So kind of like this trade on all fronts here. You know I don't think you know anything big will happen not only with visa but with the you know, big stocks reporting tomorrow and Thursday.
I think the clarity that's lacking in this market will prevent any big rips to the upside here. But I think we could make a small move higher here generally on visa and in stocks as well. Just given that it seems like the damage has been done in the market and maybe we'll continue to grind higher, albeit a much slower pace, do you feel like the damage is done? I mean, would you even say that the bottom is in? I don't know, you tell me, what are your thoughts on the market? Big picture here.
Near term and long term. Yeah, absolutely. In fact, April 7th I actually charted out that I think we just put in a low at the 5000 level on the S&P. Kind of got lucky there. That proved to be the low here. I just think things got so overdone to the negative side, both on the technical basis, sentiment and everything else.
So I don't think we're going to, you know, move appreciably higher from here. 5500 is kind of a key swing point in the S&P. I think we're right there now trading just above it. We'll see if that kind of is a magnet for stocks going forward here. So we're seeing lower trading ranges as well. Those kind of big swings that we saw a couple of weeks back are starting to calm down a little here.
So I think the market will find kind of its you know place to hang out here. Valuations still not cheap on stocks. You're looking at price to sales on the S&P poking back up towards that three X level which proved to be a meaningful top twice the only two times it ever traded there. So rich valuations will I think you know be a headwind for stocks here.
Unless the fed really cuts aggressively which I don't see happening either. Do you need to be a contrarian in this market, Tim? I mean to try and take some risks. And is that what you have to be here? I think put on more your trader cap here, you know, sell rallies, buy dips. And now the rallies are a little less, you know, big to the upside, the dips a little less.
You know, kind of scary to the downside here. But I think, you know, key position size still relatively smaller than normal here. And absolutely as you alluded to, if everyone is getting out might be time to get in. If everyone is getting in, might get time to get out that old Warren Buffett adage, right buy when others are fearful and be fearful when others are greedy.
Tim Bigham, option strategist, buy alerts.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp