Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English (auto-generated)
Do you personally expect a recession? I am going to defer to my economist at this point, but I think probably that's a likely outcome. Normally I don't pay that much attention to anecdotes, but you heard them. They're real. I hear it from just everybody now. Going to cut back a little bit.
I'm going to wait, see what happens. That is kind of recessionary talk. So, you know, we've been in this kind of very soft landing for a long time. Consumers have money. They were spending money. Corporate is making profits. I do remind people part of that was because of our extraordinary fiscal spending.
You know, we borrowed and spent $11 trillion since co and that obviously drives a lot of growth. It drives corporate profits. So, I think what you see now is corporations making announcement after announcement about don't expect my guidance to be true. I'm going to hold back here a little bit. These are long-term decisions they have to make.
They may want to see the tax bill, which you know, hopefully they can get done in July. So, yeah, I think you're going to see a slowdown. I think the economists are probably right to say that you should expect that. And the other thing which we haven't had any slowdown or real recession and co was so short I almost don't include it in so long that if you have rates going up a little bit and inflation is sticky and credit spreads gapping out which they're going to I think you'll see more credit problems than people have seen in a long time. I always remind people markets
aren't always right but sometimes they are right and I think this time they are right because they're just pricing in uncertainty at the macro level and uncertainty at the micro level the actual company level and then how it affects consumer sentiment. It's hard to tell. You know, consumers still have jobs.
Wages are going up the low end, which I think is a good thing. But if companies start cutting back, yeah, the consumer sentiment changes and business sentiment changes. I think you've already seen business sentiment change a little bit. Hopefully, you know, no one's wishing for that, but you know, hopefully if there is one, it'll be short.
But I do think fixing these tariff issues and traders would be a good thing to do. That will get one major uncertainty behind us. We have the strongest economy in the world. It would be good not to add to the uncertainty out there. Trade is really complicated. I mean, these trade agreements are thousands of pages long. It is product by product and area by area, non-trade barriers, subsidies.
You know, there's tons of food. If you spend time in just food alone, you'd be shocked how many different food agreements there are and disagreements and protection of local farmers, which almost every country does. So, the sooner the better. They should get at it. You know, that just slows everything down. And so, that's the bad part of these volatile markets.
It's not that it's bad for us. It's bad for small businesses, middlesiz companies, you know, large companies can usually get the funding they need. Well, it's nothing like 08 in clarity and nothing. And the 2000.com thing was very brief. I mean, lasted like 9 months or something like that. So, it doesn't compare to that.
The world was massively overleveraged. There was a mortgage problem. You're going to have, you know, half a trillion or maybe a trillion dollars of actual real problems. The banking system is not that leveraged today. But it's serious. And it was serious before the last election. We have a huge complex geopolitical situation, huge fiscal deficits, not just here, but around the world, sticky inflation, which I personally think will not go away so quick.
And then you have, you know, what's going to happen to tariffs, what's going to happen to trade, what's going to happen. So, you know, tariffs and trade are just part of that mix. They don't completely stand alone. I think it is perfectly reasonable for someone to say that trade was unfair. There were unfair trade things.
And remember, it's not just tariffs. It's tariffs. I think they have the VAT wrong, how they understand it, and I think they should really get a better understanding to make it easy to negotiate, but there all these non-tariff barriers around food and energy and then subsidies, which you know, China's famous for. So, it's totally reasonable to say we want to make trade better.
But I also want to point out to the Americans, we have the best economy in the world. Our GDP per person is $85,000. China's is $15,000. So you got to put a little bit into context but and then of course when they put the tariffs in there was way beyond what people expected that will cause a little inflation slow down growth but I hope what they really do is let Scott Bessant's professional negotiate I know Japan's here I gather Korea Vietnam have called and then eventually Europe get those things done quickly if you want to calm down the markets show progress in
those things and let Scott take the time trade deals are very large and very complex they can't be done overnight but you really have to teams working them to get them right. I'm taking a calm view, but I think it could get worse if we don't make some progress here. And of course, you know, trade wars, you saw China raise the race today, you know, and people are going to get angry and they're going to have responses and every country's got choices.
So, there are short-term choices, there long-term choices. And I also want to point out if you kind of look forward in the next, you know, 60 days, every company's going to be telling you guys, you know, what it means to them. You know, I think today I saw Delta remove their guidance and things like that will affect stock prices. Again, it's not over yet.
And then you've seen tremendous moves in swap prices, asset prices, treasury prices. There's a 10-year Treasury auction today and how they go. So, let them settle down, take a deep breath, negotiate some trade deals. That's the best thing they can do. You have a lot of deleveraging hedge funds and players out there, which he obviously is quite experienced at things like that.
And that is the initial effect. There will be other effects and we still are the reserve currency which will be true for a long time. But a very important point, China and Russia have made it clear they want to kind of dismantle the postworld war II system. And I think the goal of all this trade stuff should be to make Europe and our trading partners Japan, Korea, Philippines stronger, not weaker.
Bring them closer as we build up our military and any trade that protects military that we should definitely do. We made a lot of mistakes about as you know pharmaceuticals you know shipping pharmaceutical green penicellin we can't rely on any potential adversary for things we need for our military and so you know there I'm quite sympathetic that we should do that's absolutely paramount we need to do that for rare earths pharmaceutical devices semiconductor chips we should do it right I mean we shouldn't do it in a way
that wastes a lot of money and lets corporations feed it that great text trough or something like that and it could be done but it will take that we need to start right away. Even some of these other supply chains, you know, a lot of companies are too reliant on one country. It'll take them to move. But I think you got to separate, you know, making sneakers from making guns.
One is like really important, one is, you know, it's not as big a deal. So, uh, but the point about national security is economic security, national security are almost directly related in the long run. You know, hopefully when these wars get resolved and I hope in the interest of Ukraine where they have sovereignty was over and the interest of Israel and not being constantly attacked by terrorists on three sides, you need to keep the economic alliance together.
I think it would be in Russia's and North Korea's, Iran's and China's interest to fragment the Western world. And I think that would be the biggest long-term mistake. And I'm talking about over 30 or 40 years. I don't want to read the book about how the West was lost. There's a section in my chairman's letter about China.
You know, I think China in reality has done a lot of good things for its own nation. I don't agree with autocratic dictatorships, etc. But they lifted a nation that had a GDP per person of $400 to $15,000. That compares to $85,000 of America. There are legitimate complaints that people have around China, like if you look at their neighborhood, very complex neighborhood, but they are scaring Japan, Korea, Indonesia, Vietnam, India, etc.
And so, you know, they should look at themselves and look at where the legitimate complaints about trade. You know, a lot of nations around the world think that they've been dumping excess capacity on their nations. And they should look at all of that. And what I said in my letter is that America shouldn't be afraid. America has a wonderfully strong hand with all of our freedoms and prosperous nation, etc.
I think we should work with our allies, which is exactly what China doesn't want. But I think China and America should engage. And you know, they've started to, but right now they're not talking very much. So, uh, I think the first thing you do when you sit down with anyone is I think the first thing you do when you sit down is say, "How's your family? What are your objectives?" You know, we all have common interests and I don't want to get this tit fortat type of thing.
I think adults should talk to each other and listen to each other and acknowledge when the other person is right or at least has a good point. I don't think we have any engagement right now. And so, but that can start tomorrow. Doesn't have to wait a year. It can start tomorrow. You start with a phone call. Either president can assign it to someone to call them up and go see them.
We've done that, you know, with Iran, which I think is good. I think from the United States standpoint, my objective would be anything that relates to national security. Obviously, America should rely on itself or close allies for that. You know, we didn't and that's kind of a shame and I'm surprised. Anything that's about really unfair trade, you know, that should be dealt with. That's true with a lot of nations.
There's a lot of unfair trade all over the place. This has been on for a hundred different years, but a lot of things don't matter as much. You know, where you get your textiles made, your footwear, your furniture. So, I think we should be cleareyed about what we're trying to accomplish. And I also think we should do it with allies.
You know, I think if the western world, I would want to negotiate eventually with Europe, with the UK, with Japan, Korea, Australia, Philippines, and have a very strong economic relationship and also then face off with China and say we, you know, we want to trade with you, but here are the terms of trade that we all think are fair and reasonable. Yeah.
So, I think the most important thing is that we don't read a book in 40 years, how the West was lost. And so I think it's one thing for any nation or the United States to say I think this is unfair around trade, around the cost of military. I think there's some very good points, but I think Europe knows that they need to spend more on their military.
But that does not mean we shouldn't have military alliance with you all Europe in general and same with the economy. They need to do more. The GDP per person in Europe has dropped from something like 70% of America like 50%. That's not sustainable. I think Europe has already recognized it needs to change its own rules, regulations and guidelines if they want to grow faster.
And I think that's true, but it should be done with us. The goal should be in my view to strengthen Europe and get them closer, not to get them weaker and get them further. So I think fragmentation the world is a bad idea, fragmentation the western world and you can end up with the world looks like before World War I and World War II where it's almost every nation for themselves trying to figure out how they're going to protect themselves.
And unfortunately that might lead to proliferation of nuclear weapons. You know Warren Buffett talks about the resiliency of America if you just invested in America. I think that's been true. But part of the for any company here and a lot of Western companies around the world having a strong America has been good for them and having a strong western world has been good for them.
So if that wasn't true I think it would put us in a much more weaker state. I'm talking about over 40 or 50 years not the next 3 years or so. I think the real issue is there's ongoing uncertainty around tariffs, potential retaliation, how you can restructure your manufacturing supply chains if you were able to do that. I think those things are far more important and you know obviously those dollar weakness and 10-year bond weakness as a result of that.
But it happens in the short run of course you have deleveraging and that you know that may be somewhat over for now. We'll see. It was disorderly to the extent that it was a rapid move and stuff like that, but it wasn't. No, we saw most other markets were fine, but you know, credit spreads gapped out. If you look at what it means to the world, volatile markets, it's not bad for JP Morgan, but it is bad for the markets.
And when markets are very volatile, it scares people. They tend to not want to be owners. Credit spreads did gap out considerably. That means every company raising money is paying more for the money in two ways. One is the the absolute rates went up and the second is credit spreads gapped out and and that you know will cause some additional stress and strain in the system.
The US is still the most prosperous nation the world's ever seen. It's still a haven because of that strength, the rule of law, the strength of America's economy, innovation, the growth, the United States military which not just protects America, protects a good part of the western world. So it's still very strong.
But yes, a lot of this uncertainty is is challenging that a little bit. So you can be reading about this non-stop until hopefully these tariffs and trade wars settle down and go away so people can say I can rely on America. In my letter I wrote America first is okay but not America alone. And so if you talk about again it's I'm not worried about the markets as much as I am about keeping the western world together free and safe for democracy.
And that to me means you want to strengthen the economic relationships. It's an unfairness deal with it but uh we should be careful. I mean, I don't think anyone should assume they have a divine right to success and therefore don't worry about it. I simply try to describe the world as it is. I describe the world I want.
I got to deal with the world as it is. So, you know, we've had ups and downs before. We've had recessions before. I'm not as worried about that as I am about the bigger issue we've already spoke about. You never know the future. So, if you're a business person, you know, there might be a chance for recession. And I think it's almost a waste of time to constantly doing that every single day.
And when you build a company or a ship or any you got to say okay I have to deal with this whole range of outcomes you know and I always say the economy is like the weather it could be stormy it could be sunny you don't build your company saying I can only survive under one way I think some of these other uncertainties okay are material and you know one has been there for years now geopolitical I think you know trade tariffs potential retaliation the good news from deregulation so there all these things taking place you Will we settle Ukraine?
We settle good settlement for the sovereignty of Ukraine, a good settlement for Israel, you know, something with Iran. I don't know. But I think all of those things create what you're saying is a an abnormal amount of turbulence and kind of forecast and thing. And that might change how you invest your money.
You're not saying I'm going to change it because of a potential recession. I might change it because I have a completely different point of view about the future. And you know, we bank 80 million Americans in six million small businesses and cities, schools, states, hospitals, 100 countries. I think the health of those things is far more important than how I view the health of a JP Morgan or quote Wall Street.
I do object to this Wall Street thing because who is Wall Street? You know, we're owned by veterans, retirees, pension plans, you know, all around the country. That that's who I represent. And so when you say Wall Street, you including all these investors? Are you including the institutional investors who represent the veterans and the unions and the calpers and calisters? It's symbiotic.
Every time a big company makes a plant that hires 5,000 people, it hires 20 usually outside of that plan of 20,000 people that appear in small business. And so to me, it's just a misnomer when you do it. But the health of the economy, if you grow the economy, I wrote in my letter, if we grown at 3% a year over the last 20 years opposed to two, that's $15,000 more of GDP.
that would have lifted up all of society and very importantly the lower income side and that's what people forget if you grow the economy they will benefit the most when you shrink the economy they actually get hurt the most and so you know to me yeah our goal should be getting the whole now I wouldn't even say the middle class all of it can do better if we do a good job managing these economy jobs are still there consumers don't have all the extra money from co but they're still spending it's hard to tell how much is buying forward
because they're worried about tariffs but car sales clearly went up in the last couple weeks, but usually the consumer has stress when there's unemployment. So, you're going to see that when I see that and then you're going to see credit losses go up and home prices, all things be equal, come down versus what they might have been, etc.
And businesses are still doing fine and they're earning money, but I think all bets are off now. So, what you're going to see in the next 3 or 4 months is company after company report its earnings. They're going to tell you what they think about what the tariffs do to them, sales, their consumers. You're going to hear some companies probably feel in a lot of stress.
Some may benefit from all this. So, it's not clear, but I think you're going to see kind of in real time what people think about it. And there's not a business person I speak to who doesn't feel a little stressed trying to figure out what this all means. I always say with American exceptionalism, there's a really big butt.
And the butt is that we borrowed since co for 5 years, we borrowed and spent 11 trillion. And that 11 trillion showed up in the hands of consumers. They had a lot of excess cash. Credit losses came down. They spent a lot of that. It created some of the inflation. It created growth. It also created corporate profits. It's a big butt.
So, you know, we still have a deficit of $2 trillion a year. That's still a big butt. Like, when you're spending that kind of money, you know, there's another side to that mount. And there probably is. So, yeah, I think America's exceptional, but it wasn't quite that exceptional. If Europe, for example, had borrowed another trillion dollars and spent it, their GDP probably would have been a trillion dollars higher, but they would have had that same butt.
They did the same thing, just not to the extent of the United States. So, uh, but I think there was a little too much exuberance back then. I thought so at the time. And I think when they announced the Liberation Day tariffs, they were dramatically different than people expected. I mean, way off the table than what people expected. And that was shocking to the system.
I mean, the global system, not just in the United States. And of course, some have been already pulled back. I think some of these things will be bad. You have the internet bubble of 2000. I think some will do well. So, I don't think it's like one size will fit all. There is a lot of money going into it and you're going to see a lot of assumptions made that are
Made with ❤️ byGlasp