Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
[Music] Earning season is kicking into high gear with several software stocks gearing up to report earnings in the coming weeks. The latest quarterly results are expected to shed light on momentum for the software space as tariff impacts and demand uncertainties hanging overhead. For more insight on future momentum, let's get to McQuary, head of US technology research, Steve Kanig.
Steve, it is great to see you. um maybe to start higher higher levels Steve you know I think when a lot of investors think about the software sector they think okay this is a more you know relatively tariff resistant sectors Steve but there are still risks walk us through what those are hi Josh thanks for having me on you know the uh software companies in the US um you know most of the midcap and large cap companies have significant exposure to large enterprises that um can make some pretty big purchase decisions. And
when you have policy uncertainty like we've had, those decisions can get deferred. They can get pushed out. You know, companies are reluctant to make big commitments. Uh you know, in the um you know, as far as smaller customers are concerned, um they tend to be their their buying habits, you know, it's smaller number of software receipts, etc.
They tend to be more linear with the economy. So if the economy uh degrades and we start to see you know recession or a slowdown uh the purchasing by the smaller companies also gets affected. So so those are basically the macro risks. Um and you're probably going to want to ask me more about it but I don't think we're going to see those risks come home to roost in a big way in Q1.
I think there's a lot of momentum there and I think mo most of the major software names in the US have left pretty ample room in their guidance to either raise their guide or not not cut their guide. Um so that that's kind of the big picture outlook we have here and valuations have certainly come in quite a bit and and are looking pretty attractive on a lot of a lot of names.
So that's interesting Steve. Even with that sort of caution, that unknown in terms of of the outlook, you think there's a good amount of negativity that's already priced into most of these. I think that it's true, Julie. Um but I also think there's a there's a certain um buying dynamic that you know even a lot of investors may not fully appreciate even institutional investors which is um software companies have a lot of mechanisms to maintain their momentum in the short term e even in the face of deteriorating conditions. That's
that's always been true even in the 20 years that I've been on the sales side covering software. Um, you know, a lot of these sales cycles are very long and the the sales get, you know, pretty close to being concluded and the projects are green lit and they they may actually the decision may have been made in calendar Q4, but the software um gets turned on, you know, the cloud software gets turned on in Q1 and and bookings registers in Q1 and that revenue starts flowing and sometimes it can start flowing, you know, well after the
decisions are So, so that means there's there's kind of a lag time, if you will, uh, in a lot of this, how this decision-m affects revenue. Uh, and I and I think what we already saw from Service Now and SAP were some pretty good Q1 reports um that uh that set the tone for the space. And I think a lot of other software companies are going to be hesitant to start, you know, sounding economic alarms, you know, and and a lot of them have room to um if not to raise their guidance to not cut their guidance.
So I think Q1 will be fine. The question mark's going to be more Q2, Q3. Having said that, so some some questions ahead, Steve, I know there are names in your coverage universe you like. I want to get to some of those. Why in your you know, you're telling your clients where the opportunities are.
Autodesk, you say that's an opportunity. How come? Yeah. Well, a couple things going on there. Um, number one, they just settled with the activist investor who was uh fighting with them. Starboard value. Starboard is going to um has has um suggested and Autodesk has accepted two independent directors on its board. Autotodesk has already been focused more so than we've seen in past years on improving their margins.
And we think there's significant room to make the business more efficient to continue to improve margins and I I think you know the uh the autoes management will will continue to pursue margin growth as they have been uh but but even perhaps more aggressively and I think one thing that enables them to do so is the fact that this year they are transitioning to a new transaction model where they're transacting directly with customers.
resellers are still there to provide service but Autodesk is going to gain much more visibility into the end buyers. These are um these are construction firms, architects, uh uh design firms that uh now Autodesk will have that visibility that enables them to know the customer better to cross-ell and to sell more efficiently.
So I think that's important for Autodesk. I think the other thing that's going on is they're being successful pushing into providing software for downstream construction activities which is largely a green field market. Uh and Autodesk is one of the one of the pioneers in this marketplace and that's that's all upside we think going forward in terms of their uh adding to their revenue base.
Steve, I want to get your thoughts on another name that you like which is HubSpot. Those shares about down about 12% or so uh thus far this year and they're coming out with their earnings on May 8th. So, do you think that's going to be a catalyst potentially for the name? Yes, I think I think potentially it can be, Julie. Uh, we like HubSpot.
We're outperform rated on HubSpot as well as Autodesk. Um, and with HubSpot, you know, there's a there's a couple reasons we like this stock. One is uh it all comes down to fundamentals, but one is that they're they're growing um you know probably this year in the high teens and we think that's a very sustainable growth rate as they um broaden their their footprint in the various pillars of customer relationship management from marketing to service to sales.
Uh and so that's that kind of growth opportunity presents the the ability to sustain this this uh high teams revenue growth. I also think there's lots of room for margin expansion as this company grows and matures and and benefits from operating leverage. Lastly, we think this year uh their fiscal 25 which ends in December uh that there's uh ample opportunity for revenue outperformance relative to the guidance that's been put out there.
When we look at the numbers that um we think even in a in an environment as long as we don't, you know, go into, you know, some kind of very bad recession, I I think there's plenty of room for revenue upside this year. Steve, appreciate your time and those picks. Thank you. Thank you, Josh. Thank you, Julia. Great to be here.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp