Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English - CC1
English (auto-generated)
Schwab. Welcome back to Market on Close. It's time for Options Corner. Kevin Greene is here senior markets contributor on the network. Kevin let's talk about options flows in the S&P 500. And then we'll talk about some of the levels you're watching. Fill us in. Yeah I mean obviously you're seeing another decent day to the upside here. Up about 0.
6% on the S&P 500. You did see a fair amount of bullish activity happening once we had the interview on CNBC earlier. And that's really where you started seeing a nice little push to the upside here. Now we're hitting in a range or a level here around 5570. That's going to be your first area of major resistance here for today.
But there is a possibility that we could try to attempt the 5600 level. It just kind of depends on that market on close and balance order that we'll get here in about 17 minutes or so. But overall, it's obviously been really good positioning to the downside. If we have any type of failure after we have this kind of channel that's been developed here to the downside, looking at around 5525 overall, Caroline, the flows have been looking for the most part fairly bullish for the market.
But I think if you kind of look at a little bit of a longer time frame, there's just some items to kind of keep on the radar here. But for today, so far we continue to see some strong action here. It's been a little bit more of a rangebound market when you're kind of looking at the intraday trading, where support levels and resistance levels have been holding up very well.
So if you're an intraday trader, this is kind of the environment that you really thrive on, especially with the VIX that's still sitting at around 23 to 25. So overall this is actually looking pretty decent. If we do have a little bit of a pushback. The first area 5545 for the S&P 500 going into the close. And any failure below that once again 5525 is what I got on my radar here. Okay.
What about to the upside Kev. Yeah. To the upside just for the intraday. Once again 5570 is going to be your first area. And then you could look at around 5600. It is definitely possible that we actually can hit that for today. And if we actually do Caroline just to kind of like expand this out, it becomes a major short zone for this market.
So I would just kind of be a little bit cautious if we look at the E-mini S&P four year weekly chart. The reason why I kind of bring this up, we actually have and we've been looking at this for the last couple of weeks. Some anchored volume weighted average price levels here. Now this is just basically taking the overall volume those prices.
And then it makes a moving average if you will. And you can see that we were able to hold that moving average or the anchor VWAP that we call it on the October 2022 lows. That was pretty much the low that we've seen in this, let's call it maybe minor bear market pullback here, but I also have an anchored VWAP from the February 2025 highs here, and that has been an area of resistance ever since that we hit those highs.
Every time that we've touched it, we've rejected it. And for the E-mini S&P 500 we're pretty much right there. It's sitting at around 56 5622 right now. So you're sitting at around another 40 points to the upside where we might actually see some sellers actually getting into this market because it's going to be a fairly a key area of resistance.
The other reason why I kind of bring this up, you're seeing some actual interesting kind of dynamics when you're looking at the internals for the marketplace here. The first one that I really kind of focus on is that ten year, three month spread, that Treasury spread. And what we've actually seen over the last 3 to 4 trading sessions here is that spread is starting to actually get inverted again.
And we are actually in an inversion once again. And this is not really been the trend with equity markets moving higher. We've actually like to see that spread moving wider or basically moving higher. And we're not really seeing that right now. That's something that's a little bit on my radar. As a little bit of a cause for concern.
Do we start getting back into the bad news is actually good for equities because of the anticipation of fed rate cuts, which is kind of a dangerous little game that we're playing. And just kind of seeing what the yield market's doing right now compared to where we are seeing the E-mini S&P 500 coming up to resistance, I would just be very cautious about the extended move to the upside here.
Maybe a pullback might be on the horizon over the next couple of trading sessions. But this is something that has been, you know, just kind of hit my radar here today that I wanted to bring up for our viewers. Yeah. No certainly interesting there. And you know we've gotten used to some volatility. So I don't think that would be any huge surprise.
Anything else on your radar. We've got what 24 minutes before the close. Yeah. So let me just kind of expand on this. So the ten year three month spread is in an inversion or it's negative right now. That's something that you really don't want to see for a sustained bull market. The other factor here is the high yield credit spreads.
And then also kind of looking at that compared to the VIX, high yield credit spreads are actually moving to the upside VIX is moving lower. That's a correlation that we usually don't see that much. And if you're looking at high yield investment grade credit default swaps or CDs if you will, they've actually been inching up higher over the last actually since Friday.
And that is also something that usually does not correlate with equity markets moving higher 95% of the time CDs spreads themselves go lower, equity markets move higher and vice versa. So we also have a little bit of a disconnect there. Coming back to the fact that the volatility market compared to high yield credit credit spreads right now is disconnected.
Equity markets are looking good. They're rallying coming up to a potential area of resistance. But I think that you got to be very, very careful here at these particular levels because the dynamics are something that this type of environment, let's say it's a 10% of the time this actually happens and it sustains itself. Caroline.
Basically, what I'm saying, something actually has to correct either yield markets, have to correct, CDs have to correct or equity markets have to correct. All right. Well we'll see which
Made with ❤️ byGlasp