Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English (auto-generated)
SoFi just dropped their Q1 earnings report and the stock hit its highest price in the last two months. Just three weeks ago, I said that SoFi is a no-brainer stock to buy when SoFi dropped under $10 and now the stock is up more than 40% since then. But SoFi stock has been dropping since the market opened after releasing their financials.
So in this video, I will try to explain what is going on with SoFi as I look through the earnings report. But the most important question now is SoFi a good stock to buy right now. Before we get into the video, if you find any value in this, can I ask you to smash the like button? Literally costs nothing, but it helps the channel out so much.
I'm aiming to get 500 likes on this video. Help me achieve that goal. For anyone that's new, make sure to subscribe so you don't miss out on any new content like this. I'm not a financial adviser and this is not financial advice. So, always do your own due diligence. Now, let's get straight into it. Right. So first of all, we all know what SoFi is and what they do.
But first, let's look at what management had given as guidance for Q1. At the end of 2024, SoFi had recorded their best numbers to date. The new member additions and new product additions had reached all-time highs with a compound annual growth rate of 53% and 55% respectively. Lending products and financial services products had all skyrocketed.
Soulfi's adjusted net revenue and adjusted IBIDA had increased significantly with the company recording its first full year of profitability with an adjusted EPS of 15. So the company had closed out 2024 with its best year financially and with fantastic growth metrics. They had absolutely smashed the 2024 guidance. However, since releasing these financials back in January, a lot of things have happened in the world and in the US specifically, which has fueled a lot of macroeconomical concerns.
Now, for Q1 2025 guidance, SoFi had guided for adjusted net revenue of between 725 and 745 million, between 175 and 185 with net income between 30 and 40 and diluted EPS of 3 cents. Now, keep these figures in mind for a moment because as I said back in January, these were more likely going to be lowballed numbers as usual.
I've said repeatedly over the past 3 months that I expected far better than just 3 cents EPS for Q1. Now, SoFi has dropped their latest earnings report and the figures have not disappointed. Looking at the Q1 highlights, SoFi have recorded adjusted net revenue of 771. This is a 33% year-over-year increase and it's not only the fastest growth in the past five quarters, but this is significantly above the Q1 guidance which was between 725 and 745 as we've seen a moment ago.
Adjusted Ibida of 210 million is again massively above the previous guidance and their net income of 71 is more than double the midpoint of their guidance and the EPS of 6 cents is actually 100% above the January guidance of 3 cents. So this is an incredible achievement and not even the most bullish of investors could have thought was going to happen this quarter.
So's feebased revenue of 315 million represents a 67% year-over-year growth. Financial services and tech platform revenue also grew 66% while their tangible book value has grown to over 5 billion which is growth of $946 million. Another important metric here that nobody really expected was the personal loan 90-day delinquencies actually declined by 9.2.
Now, on top of the financial metrics, SoFi's new member additions has grown to 10.9 million, an increase of 802,000 new members, which is the single best quarterly increase to date. New product additions has also grown to 15.91 million, an increase of 1.18 million, which again is the single best quarterly increase that SoFi has ever produced.
These are signs that SoFi is becoming a juggernaut that is showing no signs of slowing down. Adjusted net revenue of 771 and adjusted IBIDA of 210 are again far far above anything that we've seen in previous quarters. But there is a further breakdown of revenue here too. Adjusted net revenue for the tech platform and financial services for Q1 is 407 million.
If this is annualized without any quarter overquarter increases, which we are actually sure to have, then this would equate to 1.6 billion, which is far above last year's 1.2 billion. But feebased revenue is increasing, coming in at 315 million for Q1. Now we can see here on the right hand side of the screen the feebased revenue mix that shows that fee based revenue is increasing as a percentage of total revenue each quarter.
41% of revenue now is feebased revenue which is in line with how the company is shifting its focus over the past year. The adjusted eBay margin is improving each year and while Q1 has recorded 27% management are targeting 30%. Now breaking this down even further, financial services has driven a 2x net revenue growth on the year while nearly doubling contribution margin.
Revenue going from 151 up to 303 and the contribution margin going from 25% up to 49%. These are incredible figures. While the lending segment has actually dropped a little from Q4 down to 413 million, this is still a massive 27% year-over-year growth. And now the big one, lending originations.
Again, for personal loans, this is a massive increase on Q1 2024. But the key one here is the loan platform business originations. This is over 1.5 billion in Q1 compared with 2.1 billion in the whole of 2024. If I remember correctly, this was about 1 billion or maybe 1.1 billion in Q4. So this is a massive increase which overall has increased the personal loans to over 5.5 billion in Q1 alone.
Student loans comes in in a new high of 1.19 and home loan originations is more than four times its 2023 figures. Since acquiring a bank license back in 2022, SoFi has grown deposits to $27 billion and is shifting towards more deposit funding, which has reduced the funding expense by an estimated half a billion per year.
And we can see that clearly here. In 2022, deposit funding accounted for 57% while now in Q12025, it accounts for 90% of the funding base. Now while a lot of people were worried about guidance for the year, especially in the current economic climate, there were concerns that SoFi might even cut guidance.
Management have actually increased guidance for the year and issued Q2 guidance. Now adjusted net revenue has come in this quarter at 771, but management are guiding for between 785 and 805 next quarter. Adjusted Ebida of between 200 and 210 and EPS guidance between 5 and 6 cents. Well, they have increased the fullear EPS guidance up to 27 to 28 cents, which is only a small increase of about 1 cent.
But what I will say about this is that this should be easily achievable. If anything, once again, SoFi are lowballing our expectations. Remember that the expectation for this quarter was only 3 cents and some analysts were expecting even less, but SoFi have gone and doubled this recording EPS of 6 cent. I expect them to easily do better than 6 cents next quarter.
But guys, this is what I believe. These are just my thoughts. This is not financial advice and I'm not a financial adviser. I would be hoping for about 8 cents next quarter as long as growth remains strong and I fully expect the share price will begin to reflect this, but I would love to hear your thoughts and what you are expecting in the coming quarters.
Now, just a reminder, when SoFi released their Q3 earnings report back at the end of October last year, the stock immediately dropped just like what we've seen today. But over the next two months, the stock nearly doubled. If I remember correctly, the stock dropped down from like $150 down to under $10 and then rallied up to over $18 in January.
So, let me know your thoughts in the comments below. Don't forget to like and subscribe. I hope you have a great week and I'll catch you in the
Made with ❤️ byGlasp