Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
Today, Bitcoin holds steady below $95,000. The DOJ requests a 20-year sentence for former Celsius CEO Alex Mashinsky. And Chris Maurice of crypto payments firm Yellow Card discusses regulatory developments around stable coins in the US. Welcome to CNBC's Crypto World. I'm Talia Kaplan. Crypto markets in the green this morning.
As of noon Eastern, Bitcoin climbed 1% trading under the $95,000 level. Ether rose 3% to more than $1,800 and Salana traded at $148. Okay, let's talk about the top stories. Fintech bank SoFi plans to bring back crypto investing. CEO Anthony Notto told CNBC the plan comes after a quote fundamental shift in the regulatory landscape under the Trump administration.
In late 2023, the fintech firm was forced to drop crypto investing as part of becoming a regulated bank. Notto told CNBC that new guidance from the acting head of the office of the comproller of the currency led SoFi to plan an aggressive return to crypto. Speaking on CNBC Squawkbox this morning, Notto stressed that the regulatory environment for crypto is evolving, which will allow his company to offer crypto coins in the firm's Invest product.
He says he hopes to make that happen within the next 6 months. Notto also said SoFi plans to enter crypto and blockchain activities in a much broader and more significant way. We want to be able to offer blockchain products and crypto products across every area that we're currently in. So across lending, across paying, across uh investing uh and as well as protecting.
We think it's a technology uh more than anything else and we can use it to allow people to pay easier at lower cost to pay faster and over time be able to capture some of the opportunity by providing infrastructure services to third parties via our technology platform. So it really will cut across every element of our business.
Next, Donald Trump Jr. co-founded a new private members club that includes crypto executives. Sources tell CNBC that the club called Executive Branch kicked off with a launch party on Saturday. Attendees included at least a half dozen members of the Trump administration including SEC chair Paul Atkins along with CEOs, tech founders, and policy experts.
On the crypto side, sources also tell CNBC that crypto investors Cameron and Tyler Winkleboss are founding members along with White House cryptozar David Saxs. The club, which costs half a million dollars to join, was launched with the help of Omid Malik and Christopher Buskerk of 1789 Capital, as well as Alex and Zack Witkoff, the sons of billionaire real estate investor and friends of President Trump, Steve Whit.
The news comes as Democrats on Capitol Hill continue to raise concerns tied to the Trump family's crypto ventures. On Friday, Senators Elizabeth Warren and Adam Schiff sent a letter to the US Office of Government Ethics asking for an inquiry after Trump's official memecoin surged on the heels of an announcement that top holders of the token could have dinner with the president.
Last, the Department of Justice is seeking a 20-year prison sentence for former Celsius CEO Alex Mashinsky. In a filing submitted yesterday, the DOJ argued Mashinsk's guilty plea and facts presented before the court make clear that his actions were not the product of negligence. Rather, quote, "They were the result of deliberate, calculated decisions to lie, deceive, and steal in pursuit of personal fortune.
" Mashinsky was arrested back in 2023 in connection to the failure of his crypto platform, Celsius, which filed for bankruptcy a year earlier. He pleaded guilty this past December to committing commodities and securities fraud. His sentencing is scheduled for May 8th. All right, for our main story, Crypto World's TA McKil spoke with Chris Maurice, co-founder and CEO of the crypto payments firm Yellow Card.
The company describes itself as the largest licensed on andoff ramp for stable coins in Africa. Maurice breaks down the inspiration behind the company and how stable coin regulation in the US affects his business. Well, thank you so much for joining me on Crypto World on set today. I'm so excited to hear about Yellow Card because like I was saying off camera, I've been covering crypto for a while and what you're doing at Yellow Card really um seems like kind of the holy grail in one sense of what we can do with this technology. Um take it
from the beginning. What was the problem that you were trying to solve? Yeah. Uh, you know, I think the the big thing that uh really made this clear to us was uh one day I was at a Wells Fargo, met this Nigerian man who was sending $200 to his family and the bank charged him $90 to send 200.
And I thought, you know, that's crazy, right? So, I talked to the guy, hey, have you heard of Bitcoin? It's free. It's instant. It's fun. All this great stuff. And, you know, went home and just started thinking, what would this guy's mom do with $200 in Bitcoin? You can't buy food with that. You can't pay rent with that. And you know, to your point, everybody in this industry loves to talk about all the problems that we solve, right? I I hear all the time about how we're revolutionizing finance and changing the way, you know, that payments work. Uh
but then all you actually see are, you know, NFTTS of monkeys and and, you know, meme coins and dog and catcoin and all of that. And and so I think there was a big juxtaposition between sort of what the industry was saying and what was actually going on. And I I just became obsessed with that problem. How does a real person with a real problem actually utilize this technology? And so that's what we set out to build, right? And essentially, you know, what we developed is the the technology for stable coins to to actually be used as
an alternative to Swift and to correspondent banking starting in countries where, you know, those systems don't work today. So, how did we get from Bitcoin to now stable coins? You've built this business around stable coins. When did you realize that it had to be around stable coins versus Bitcoin? what made you realize that? Yeah, so look, I love Bitcoin.
Uh, you know, I I will be the first to say that uh when we started off, we were only doing Bitcoin, right? I we launched in June 2019. So, you know, stable coins were around, but they weren't certainly what they are today, right? Uh and it wasn't until 2021 that we actually listed our first stable coin, which was USDT.
And within about a day of listing it, about 30% of our volume moved over to stable coins. uh within a few months 99% of our volume moved over to stable coins and it just I mean completely took off from there and so I think it it became quite clear very quickly after you know offering this as an option that you know people are really just interested in the dollar right they're interested in payments they're interested in you know moving their money and better ways of being able to move money around the world rather than you know speculating on on
Bitcoin or uh any of the other assets so tell me about the product itself um who is using it and why and how do you make money? Corporates. We work with large corporates uh all over the world, right? All over emerging markets, Africa, other parts of the emerging world and then you know companies across you know US, Europe, Asia, etc.
that do business on the continent in and in emerging markets that need help with payments. We deal with large companies that have a lot of money in these countries, a lot of local currency that they're not able to to move, right? they're not able to properly interact with the international financial system for a number of reasons.
Either lack of liquidity on the US dollar or just no connectivity to Swift, right? Uh through local banking networks. And so we work with these companies on essentially three things. International payments, treasury management, and just access to dollars, right? Uh at the end of the day, you know, what I like to tell people is that pretty much all the companies that we work with, what they have in common is none of them really care about stable coins.
None of them care about blockchain. None of them care about, you know, the technology. They just have very practical, real world problems that they need solved. And this is the best way to do it. This is the best technology and the first technology that that truly solves the problem as opposed to just sort of moving the problem around on the back end.
Give me a sense of how much reach you have. So your market is Africa. How do how much reach do you have and how do you quantify that? Yeah, I mean so we work we work pred predominantly in Africa and then across various parts of the emerging world. Uh I mean we work with about 30,000 businesses of all shapes and sizes, right? So everything from you know large banks on the continent down to a guy that sells shoes on the side of the road that he's importing from China and and everybody in between.
Uh I mean you know we do a lot of work with you know PayPal and and Coinbase and other you know major institutions that want to do business in some of the fastest growing you know GDPs middle class consumer class in the world but don't want to deal with the the regulation the licensing compliance banks that don't have online banking right currencies that are you know inflating rapidly.
And so we do a lot of work with these large corporates and and you know some of the big names in in remittance and payments and banking on just making it a lot easier for them to be able to interact with these countries all from a US dollar stable coin base. Um stable coins obviously a hot topic in this country.
We are you know hopefully going to be seeing the first official crypto legislation that's focused on stable coins. uh one of the main issuers of USD backed stable coins fining to go public again. Um what do these conversations and these milestones here in the US mean globally and for your business specifically? Yeah, it's been great.
I think uh I think you know look the the saying I know it's I know it's on the continent I I think other people say it as well is you know when the US sneezes the world catches a cold right and so uh you know when you have an administration that is pushing the technology and when you have more openness from a you know legislative perspective in the US on this technology you get a lot more interest from countries and governments all over the world and so I mean you know we've talked governments just within the past couple of months that
are you know essentially asking you know hey what am I missing you know what have I not been understanding about this technology that the you know this new administration in the US is so interested in it and is pushing it and has it as such a top priority and so there's just a lot more interest around the world especially in emerging markets in you know how do we adopt this technology how do we embrace it how do we get companies building here setting up here and you know bring in the innovation bring in jobs, bring in the
money that, you know, this industry is is bringing to to the US and to other other countries around the world. Okay, that's all for Crypto World today. We'll be back again tomorrow and we'll see you then.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp