Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
I do want to talk about consumer confidence. Break this data for you. Consumer confidence falling for the fifth straight month in April to 86. Economists were expecting 88 here. Interesting to see the present situation number coming in at 133.5. That's just a touch below the prior number. Expectations coming in at 54.
4. The previous number was 65.2. So a significant move to the downside on those expectations. Joining us in studio to break it down, we got Yolena Shalyva. She is the Conference Board's senior US economist. Elena, great to speak with you here. What is your headline take away from this report? Well, expectations are at 13-year low.
And uh if you look at uh what consumers are telling us about jobs availability, they expect that uh to be really really poor. So that index is actually uh at its highest level uh since the great recession. the index that tells us that consumers expect fewer jobs available. So this is telling us this is getting to the consumer.
They were surprised by the tariffs. Remember this survey was taken right uh at the um you know at the high peak of uncertainty during the liberation day that is included in the sample. So I think consumers were very much surprised by uh the severity of those tariffs and they are actually expecting to uh affect their finances and their jobs.
So I I want to pull out a jarring stat from this print that I know you'll be aware of. The share of consumers expecting fewer jobs in the next 6 months 32.1% nearly as high as in April 2009 in the middle of the great recession. Totally. So that is a scaring thing and uh they are very much concerned about their personal finances as well.
So uh I think the JOL's data that you cited earlier that is an interesting one as well because the job openings rate fell to 4.3%. 4.5% is kind of the borderline between you know uh significant increases in the unemployment rate and small increases in the unemployment rate. When it falls below 4.5% this is significant. we should probably expect uh much more significant increases in the unemployment rate.
And yet you have stocks rallying at the moment. To what extent do you think that the narrative about consumer resilience over the last four years is perhaps being taken for granted right now by consumers? Do you think or or by investors? Do you think that that consumer resilience is going to continue despite the soft data? I think yeah, exactly.
The soft data and the hard data. When the hard data starts uh falling, that's where when we're probably going to see something. Well, the data on the last consumer confidence is about 12 year low and it does indicate that we may be heading into a recession. At what level would would you say uh we're out of that um recessionary potential? I mean uh usually expectations below 80 uh level is indicative of a recession.
We we are way below that uh for a few months now. So but it doesn't mean we're in a recession now. So uh you know there's been some disconnect between uh confidence sentiment indicators and the reality but I think we are going to start to see some uh follow through in the hard data. The one to watch is obviously this Friday and I think we're going to probably see a weak number as well even this early given that you know the tariff policy just went into place perhaps maybe it takes more time.
No, you think we'll see it immediately. I think we're going to see a freeze in terms of hiring. Maybe not layoffs just yet, but uh hiring freezes will impact the number and perhaps uh some uh layoffs in uh the industries that are more uh susceptible to this uh trade shocks uh such as you know trade and transportation and uh other things like that. Yeah.
What are you watching to determine when that labor market data will really roll over and be indicative of some pain? Unemployment rate and the details beneath that unemployment rate. So flows into unemployment from different uh you know uh sectors layoffs into um you know jobs into unemployment out of labor force into unemployment.
If that starts rising that's uh going to be a really u tricky situation as far as the uh government is concerned. We we we've seen quite a few layoffs the past couple of months and and how is that going to uh have an effect and when is that going to have an effect on the jobs report because the jobs report obviously huge lag effect on that with birth day uh uh birth death uh statistics but how soon will that show up in the data? You could see that this month this in this coming uh report the um big worry for the economy as a whole
from that statistic is that you know it's not just government workers it's the contractors and the relation uh here is you know you are going to see that pass through into contractors at at a rate of 2.5 2.6 jobs per one uh government layoff. So that's a pass through. Another thing is state and local government workers.
Are we going to see a slowdown in that sector? Most most likely because uh we are we ran out of uh the pandemic funds uh for them to hire people and the private sector. I think we'll see a significant slowdown in lesion hospitality uh for example because consumers are pulling back from this discretionary spending on services in the time of significant uncertainty.
So that is uh where we see we we're going to see some pass through I think. Yeah, Neil Zetta has been flagging that state and local government slowdown as something that is a significant risk for some time Elena. So thank you so much for bringing that up and for giving us great context on the data.
Appreciate it as always.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp