Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English - CC1
English (auto-generated)
Welcome back to market on close. I'm Caroline Woods. Just about ten minutes left in the trading day. It's time for the big picture. Let's welcome in from Charles Schwab. Liz Ann Sonders is chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab. Team of one here. Lisanne, thanks so much for joining us. Nice to see you.
So listen, the market is higher on hopes of a trade deal. I know you want to get a better sense of the playing field in order to really know the market impact of the tariffs. Sounds like a deal with potentially Japan and India could be coming soon. Based on what we've been hearing from the white House.
Would that give you a good enough idea of the playing field, or is it really all about China? Well, I don't know yet. I think China is obviously the most important force here in terms of what we're already seeing. The impact on confidence measures, the drying up of shipments coming from China to U.S. Ports. But I think a start to deals and getting maybe a better understanding of what those deals might actually look like, what's their construct? I think that's been an important issue as well.
And, you know, even heading into Liberation Day, but certainly in the immediate aftermath of that, what business leaders have been saying and were saying is just tell us what the playing field is. I think most businesses, certainly the larger ones, can figure out how to navigate around tariffs if there's some certainty associated with them.
So I'm not sure we're yet past that point of uncertainty. Even if we start to get trade deals. Because even if we look at, say, an average weighted tariff rate of 15%, which seems to be what economists are gelling around, that is still significantly higher than what existed prior to Liberation Day. And you've said that there's better than even odds of a recession because of the impact there.
Do you think we'll start to see that weakness show up in the data this week? It's hard to judge whether we'll see it as soon as this week. We've got the jobs report coming out, what's called the reference week, which is the point up to which we have the data based on the Bureau of Labor Statistics and the combination of their establishment survey and the household survey.
The former generates payrolls. The latter generates the unemployment rate. It is through April 12th. So that captures a little bit. Call it ten days of some of the tariff related turmoil and uncertainty that we're seeing. But it may not fully yet reflect that. I'd say the near term data to keep a close eye on would be less so.
Things like the JOLTS data that we got today, because that lags by a month. So that's only March data. But claims we're getting soon challenger gray layoff announcement. Some of those leading leading indicators I think might be the tell, particularly if we don't get a sense of the true impact. As of this Friday's labor market report.
Yeah, I've been hearing that quite a bit lately. Weekly jobless claims aren't usually the focus on a on a monthly jobs report week, but it seems like there's increased focus, I guess, obviously, given the timing of there. But despite the fact that we have been seeing recession odds tick higher, and there still is all of this tariff uncertainty, and despite the fact that we've seen some really huge wild swings in the market this month, if you take a look, we still have one more trading day left in April, but the S&P 500 is down less than 1%
for April now. What's the read through there? Can we get anything you know bullish based on that a sign of resilience in this market or not quite yet. I think it's a little bit too soon to tell. If we end up on a on a strong note through tomorrow. It would be a pretty historically epic intra month reversal in the market.
And that based on history, because it would be unprecedented if we saw that to that significant degree. In other words, if we keep kind of rallying hard into the end of the month. So there's not a lot of historical precedence. That said, the weakness in the first four months of the year, if we look at it collectively, not just the month of April, suggests, based on history, a bit more choppiness to come.
But I'll tell you, I'm not. I'm not a trader. I don't advise traders, I don't I don't try to take a short term market timing perspective. But man, even those that do that and do that fairly well are having a really difficult time trying to gauge the short term moves in the market, because it's so much at the mercy of these policy announcements, which literally can happen in the moment and can turn things on a dime.
It's a tricky market backdrop, no question. Yeah, certainly the case tech, though, actually has been holding up pretty well in the month of April. Obviously not the case year to date. It's been one of the worst performing sectors. We of course have four of the Mag seven on tap this week with Amazon, meta, Apple and Microsoft.
Do you think that there's a chance that tech could regain its leadership position if earnings end up coming in better than expected? Well, keep in mind that The Magnificent Seven is inclusive of three different sectors. So you've got tech communication services and consumer discretionary. What I often refer to as the growth trio.
I think the relative strength we're seeing on a month to date basis, which is in contrast to your point, Caroline, about the year to date, which is much more defensive in terms of leadership. Actually, there's a force at play here that I think needs to continue to be considered, which is you've seen hedge funds, other institutions do a lot of de-risking over the last couple of months.
But what is clear is there still is that buy. Buy the dip mentality on the part of retail traders. And I think that is part of the reason why you're seeing groups like The Magnificent Seven and tech and tech adjacent kind of find their legs in this April period of time, which does smack a lot of this buy the dip that could persist.
But I think if we get into another period of elevated volatility, my guess would be we see a shift back into those classically defensive areas. So it's sort of a risk on risk off that will define what segments of the market do well in the short term. But Lisanne you've been talking about factor based investing really all year with this focus on quality, how does big tech play into quality? Because as I think about companies that potentially could have strong earnings and good cash flow and be able to withstand, you know, a recessionary environment, it
seems like big tech could fit the bill. It could, but I'd say be really careful about monolithic sector based investment decisions. I think there's a way, as always, there is to screen at the factor level up the quality spectrum, strength of balance sheet, strong free cash flow, reasonable valuations, high interest coverage, even adding into the mix. Low volatility.
A lot of people just assume that up in quality means sort of classically defensive areas or traditional value areas. There are those factors evident across the spectrum of sectors. And that's the point of factor based investing is you're not you don't have to make those monolithic sector calls in which you might get high quality and low quality.
So that continues to be our emphasis is that factor based investing. In fact, as you know, we neutralized all of our sector recommendations about three weeks ago. And for now, I think we're going to stay in that mode that won't that won't be long lasting. But we last time we did that was in the early part of the pandemic, when you had an equivalent amount of uncertainty about the near term outlook. Yes.
And I know that you won't change that until you get a better idea of this playing field that we keep wondering what it looks
Made with ❤️ byGlasp