Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
It's time for Yahoo Finance's market minute. Stocks seesawing a bit today as investors anticipate an announcement from President Trump around potential easings on auto tariffs. Meanwhile, shares of healthcare startup Hims and Hers surging on news that is teaming up with Novo Nordisk to offer an affordable option for obesity treatments.
Starting now, consumers can bundle a Hims and Hers subscription with any dose of Novo's weight loss drug bui for a single price starting at $599 a month. and SoFi posting strong first quarter results and lifting its guidance. The company seeing double-digit growth across all of its business segments.
And Spotify issuing a disappointing second quarter outlook. The company guiding for 689 million monthly active users in its second quarter. Analysts were expecting 694 million. That is your Yahoo Finance market minute this morning. For more on what's trending on Yahoo Finance, you can scan the QR code to track the best and worst performing stocks of the session.
[Music] Welcome to Wealth Everyone. I'm Brad Smith and this is Yahoo Finance's guide to building your financial footprint. Our community of experts will give you the resources, tools, tips, and the tricks that you need to grow your money. On today's show, finding a port in the storm.
The portfolio manager shares the key factors to look for in a stock to really dictate whether or not it could have real tangible margins of safety amid the recent market volatility and your investing playbook. All week on wealth, we'll dive into all things technology, how the sector fits into your portfolio, how to think about AI, and how to stockpick from the larger sector.
And on today's show, guess what? We're going to discuss which key areas of tech are risky and which may be safer amid the uncertain macro backdrop. Plus, recession fears could be leading to panic buying for many Americans. We'll get tips from a behavioral finance expert. So, remain calm and protect your money amid the uncertainty.
All that and much more coming up during today's show. But first, let's begin as we always do, taking a look at some of the market action. 90 minutes into the trading day here. We were seeing some declines. We are now higher across the board. Stocks largely wavering from what we've seen play out in the first 90 minutes of trade.
Investors wait for progress on trade deals. Joining me now, we've got George Cipellini, who is the pen mutual asset management portfolio manager. Good to have you here, George. Uh, you say investors need to find and hold on to real tangible margins of safety. So, how do you identify those? Hey, Brian, great to see you again and go birds.
Um, so I think I think if we think about this period that we're in, we are all operating through this fog of tariffs and it's pretty difficult and it can be scary at times. And so I think one of the things that again we're always proponents of active management and I think it's a little bit more important in today's world because you know you want to find companies that have great balance sheets that can survive any kind of financial disruption.
You want companies that have an operating margin structure that can defend themselves in a period of rising cost, which we which it looks like we're going to have today. And then you want great management teams. You want companies that have been through different cycles that have been through COVID and have operated through these different tough periods.
I think if you the if you have those combination uh that combination of of tangible margins of safety, I think that can really help your portfolio. And so as we're waiting for some of the earnings results from some of these companies that make up components of the Magnificent 7, four of them are reporting this week.
So as we're continuing to kind of listen in for how they're assessing the environment, what do you expect to hear, what is the tenor that they could signal that might bring some calm to the broader markets? That's a great question. because they were so important over the past few years in terms of their performance and their contribution to the S&P and all the major indexes.
I think the key thing is, you know, we're still going to look at this capex number that that people have been talking about that I know I've been talking about in the past. We want to see how honestly bullish they are about whether it's data centers or whether it's growth globally. I think I think again the risk that we want to read into and we're getting a lot of commentary and I think this quarter is almost a throwaway for the actual numbers because of what's occurred since.
So again the commentary is critically important because I think the main risk that hopefully everybody understands is that through this tariff period there is the potential that in a trade war the total pie shrinks. So I want to see signs that the pie is at least maintaining its size and and hopefully not shrinking.
And so with that in mind, you actually mentioned the kind of aggregate uh view and and perspective of earnings growth this season. According to some facts set data for Q1 2025, the blended year-over-year earnings growth rate for the S&P 500 is 10.1%. Now, if 10.1% is the actual growth rate for the quarter marks the second straight quarter of double-digit earnings growth reported by the index, but as you say, it's not about what companies did in the most recent or the past, but how they're signaling what the outlook looks like
for the future here. And so, how from your assessment are companies trying to position their businesses and their financial performance amid some of that uncertainty? really tough because again we're talking about a situation from a tariff standpoint that none of us have dealt with in our in our in our lives and many managers haven't dealt with in in a very very long period of time at least from a US standpoint and so I think what again we're we're going through all the commentary now it's really tough when you know you have GM or UPS or Sketchers
just say hey look guys we can't give you guidance we just can't do it it's too difficult so I think what we're trying to do quite frankly there's there's a couple ways to approach it as investors. Number one, you could focus on businesses that just won't be as exposed. Uh there's a domestic, for example, a domestic uh HVAC commercial HVAC company that we own there.
They they make everything in the US and they sell in the US. That's pretty easy. They're not going to be exposed as much to the tariffs. They might actually benefit because their competitors will be. Or, you know, a Norwegian ADR company that we own that that has a great dividend yield. It's a web browsing company.
again they're not going to be exposed to these tariffs. So I think that's the one track you can absolutely try your best from a bottom-up basis to avoid the tariff impact. The other way is to maybe be a little bit contrarian and maybe take the optimistic view that hey look this tariff thing isn't going to be forever or the tariff deals may work out pretty positively and again there you'd have to take a contrarian stance and buy what's a little bit uglier today in hopes that things will get better and the news headlines will be better moving forward.
George Silone, great to have you here with us today. Thanks so much for taking the time. Great to see you, Brad. Thank you. [Music] [Applause] It's now time for some of today's trending tickers. We are watching shares of BP and Uber. Joining me now, we've got Yahoo Finance senior reporter Alexander Canal.
First up, shares of oil giant BP losing ground after posting lower than expected net profit for the first quarter. This comes days after activist investor Elliot Management disclosed a more than 5% stake in the company. In late February, BP announced plans to cut renewable investments as part of a turnaround plan. And taking a look at shares right now, they are down by about 2.6% on this alley.
Yes, BP undergoing a lot of strategic changes right now. You were just ticking through some of those. We have this reset away from earlier green energy ambitions, a refocus on more traditional oil and gas operations. We have leadership changes. We have the Elliot stake. So, it's a period of transition for this company.
If we zero in on these results, you'll see that we have a profit decline of 49% year-over-year, missing analyst expectations. The company attributed the downturn to weaker refining margins and poor performance in oil and gas trading. Now, in response to this miss, BP did announce a $500 million reduction in capital spending for 2025.
That brings that number down to 14.5 billion. The company also plans to divest 3 to four billion in assets, exceeding its previous target. And from an investor perspective, shares have not done so well year-over-year basis. We're down about 28%. But year to date, which I think is interesting, we're only down about 4%.
So we're outpacing the broader S&P 500, which currently has declines of around 6%. So perhaps part of that is the turnaround effort, the Elliot stake. We'll see though if this strategic shift can hold and trickle through into the share price. Absolutely. We're also watching shares of Uber here this morning, too. This has been an interesting one.
Uber reportedly telling all employees they will be required to work in person at least 3 days per week starting in June. According to a memo viewed by CMDC, the policy will apply even to workers who were previously approved to work remotely. The company also raising the requirement for its one-mon sbatical program from 5 years at the company to eight.
Taking a look at shares of Uber here this morning. They are fractionally higher, but this is more of kind of a continuence in the RTO, the return to office policies that the financial services industry has probably been the most strict of most sectors about, but now we're seeing this also trickle into tech companies as well.
Yeah, Google is another one that's been pushing for this RTO. Big push from upper management. They say they don't want to be just good, they have to be great. And apparently being in the office equals being great. now Tuesday through Thursday. So, you can still work remote Mondays and Fridays. I do say if you were approved to work remote and you moved your life and now all of a sudden you're getting asked to go back to the office, that does stink.
However, we are seeing just this big push across the board and as an employee if these companies are reviewing their policies and they're changing things, unfortunately, you have to play ball or perhaps look for a new job. And think about Uber's business as well. If you are working remote, you're not taking Ubers as much.
I know personally for me if I need to be in the office early if I'm feeling a little lazy sometimes I will take an Uber to work. So fundamentally I feel like this makes sense but you know I I get the frustration on the employee side as well. I wonder if they still require them to drive a certain amount of hours too.
It was something that Dar Kos Shahi he had when he took over the helm of CEO. It was something that he was interested in making sure that he knew the experience from the driver side too. And I think that at that time there was a little bit more of the making sure that employees also got a gauge of how the platform works knew kind of the endto-end experience.
Of course, this is separate from RTO, but that's just something about the internal culture, right? Right. Which is really what this story is about here. Uh Ally, thanks so much for breaking these down. Appreciate it. You can scan the QR code below to track the best and worst performing stocks of the session with Yahoo Finance's trending tickers page.
Coming up on the other side of the short break, we've got much more of your markets action. Stay tuned. You're watching Yahoo [Music] Finance. SoFi Technology raising its fullear guidance, citing growth across all its business segments during the first quarter. On the back of the robust report, CEO Anthony Notto says the company plans to accelerate its rate of innovation in the year to come.
Joining me now to discuss the results, we've got Chris Whan, Whan Global Adviserss and Chairman. Chris, great to have you back on the program with us. Just want to get your assessment of SoFi here. Well, the growth rate is slowing but still quite impressive. Uh earnings were actually down slightly because of marketing costs and some other factors.
Uh but overall, you know, this is one of the best performing uh bank stocks in the country. It's still more fintech than bank. uh but they have gotten their uh deposit base up and the real issue for me I think is twofold. One is when does this company get big enough so that the overhead costs are not so oppressive. They're quite high.
It's 90% of net revenue. And you know the second thing is credit. The biggest item on their balance sheet is their unsecured loan book. Uh they're not known for that. They're known as a student lender, an innovator, etc. But you got to keep your eye on that student loan book because it's already thrown off more than 3%. And so with that in mind, oh, I'm I'm sorry you you cut out for a second there, Chris.
I didn't mean to cut you off, but actually to to something that you were mentioning a moment ago on the margin side of the business, I think adjusted IBTA margin rate, they hit about 27%. It sounds like you're not liking the overhead that goes into this business. So how do you think they can pull some of that cost out, extract that cost and ultimately perhaps bolster some of the margins that we are seeing at this juncture? Well, it comes down to overhead.
I mean EBIDA is not really relevant to a bank. I kind of want to know what interest expense is. So whenever I see somebody talking about IBIT with respect to a financial company, to me that's a bit of a red flag. But ultimately, you know, this is about overhead. the overhead expense, salaries, everything else at so far are the among the highest in the banking industry.
Uh we follow the top 10 and some banks for our index and this has been one of the better performers I think because of growth. If you ask equity managers why do they care about SoFi, it's because of the growth, not the profitability. But as we know, PayPal, Block, all of these darlings eventually achieve profitability and that's when the industry really shifts and the investor uh component shifts as well.
So that's that's kind of where I am on this stock. It's fine. It's a consumer lender, but it does have a lot of exposure to unsecured consumer. So far, the banking industry is down this quarter. You know, that recession we keep talking about has not materialized, Brad. So, so far so good, but if we see credit costs go up, I think SoFi will come under pressure.
You know, with that in mind, as as we're thinking about how SoFi and some of the other new fintech companies out there have emerged as viable bank options for consumers because for for a long time, you know, I thought about this meme that was uh popularly, you know, if not if not friend, then why friend shaped for these companies? If not bank, then why bank shaped? Um, but they've increasingly moved in that direction here.
What type of share do you think they'll be able to take as more younger consumers where they're touting some of these new member signups, some of that lifetime value that they might be able to bring to the table for investors as well? What type of market share do you think they'll be able to take and then retain longer term as they're bringing on more of these features? Well, this is the question.
$35 billion in balance sheet today. I would tell you given the overhead expense, they probably have to double in size to get that number down so it's more reasonable. And then long-term, if you're going into asset management, if you're going into consumer lending more, you're going to be head-to-head with some of the biggest players in the industry.
I would be surprised if this can get much bigger than about 50 60 billion dollars. Uh so really the issue for Mr. Noto and his team is what do we do then? Do we sell the business? Do we go head-to-head with Capital One and some of the others? You know, they're throwing off 3.3% net loss on their consumer book. That's a single B credit.
So, to me, that's that puts them up a little under Capital One. Is that really where they want to be as a business? Uh, in a recession, that number is going to double. So, that's kind of I think you ask a very good question, Brad. Given the business model, do we compete with Schwab? Do we compete with some of the others in the business? I don't know what the answer is.
Chris, always great to speak with you. Thanks so much for giving us the analysis. My pleasure. Great day to all of you guys. Thanks. Same to you. Home prices rose on an annual basis in February as limited supply continued to prop up the market amid affordability challenges. Let's bring in Yahoo Finance senior reporter Danny Romero to break things down here.
Danny, what do we know? Brad, home prices kept rising, but the pace is cooling down in February. So, the national home price index rose 3.9% from a year earlier, according to data from the S&P K Schiller. Now, that was down from the 4.1% annual gain we saw in January. Remember this is this data measures a threemonth period through February when mortgage rates were hovering around that mid6 range.
So, the index tracking home prices in the 20 largest US cities climbed to 4.5% compared to last February and down from the 4.7 annual increase in the previous month. Now, regionally, New York reported the highest annual gain, not shocking, among the 20 largest cities with a 7.7% increase in February.
Chicago and Cleveland followed with the annual increase of 7% and 6.6% 6% while Tampa prices fell by 1.5%. So economists say that due to the limited housing supply that can that continues to underpin uh home prices in most markets and so we are seeing slower and a more sustainable pace of price growth which is something we have been wanting to see because that also influences housing inflation at the end of the day which we want to see cool down.
All right, we're going to be continuing to keep tabs on these data points. Danny, thanks so much for breaking this down. Coming up everyone, investing in alternative investments. What you might want to consider adding to your portfolio. That's next on [Music] Wealth. Just about 2 hours into the trading session here on the activity that we're tracking.
You're seeing some mixed activity as of right now. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is higher by about half a percent, holding on to gains here throughout much of today's trading session. the NASDAQ composite, you're seeing that flat just barely to the downside that has touched both sides of the trades, hyper oscillating, waffling, whatever you want to call it, call it flat, but just barely to the downside right now in the S&P 500.
That flat but barely to the upside. Similar activity that you're seeing there play out in that line chart. Also, taking a look at some of the sector activity since we were mentioning the S&P 500. 11 sectors. Got them pulled up here on the screen for you right now. pulling up the caboose. You've got consumer discretionary that's lower by about half a percent, but more gainers than Lagards here.
This is different from when we started off the day. Right now, you've got XLR real estate leading the pack. That's up by about half a percent here. So, we'll continue to track that. Staples also catching a little bit of a bid here on the day. XLP is up by about 4/10en of a percent. I want to toggle on over to the NASDAQ 100 here.
Give you a look at some of those mega cap tech stocks here. You're seeing Apple fractionally higher, Microsoft fractionally higher as well, but a little bit of red coming into play for Nvidia, Amazon, Google or Alphabet, whatever you want to call them. Call them down 8/10en of a percent and Meta Platforms that too has been touching both sides of the trade.
That one is flat here on the day here. Uh we're also going to take a brief look at the Dow 30 components here and similar move in terms of the mega cap tech stocks, but also just wanted to put this on an equal view for you. We've got more gainers than decliners right now. United Healthcare is uh that is weighing on the Dow right now.
That's down by about one and a half percent. But there are a lot of other components that are holding the Dow higher right now and that is Honeywell that's leading the pack. That's up by about 5.6%. And then just lastly for all of you crypto curious people out there, let's check in on BTC USD. What's it doing? It's up right now by about 9/10en of a percent here.
We are still holding in that 95,000 range here. And I'll put this on a longer view so you can see some of the month-to-ate action that's really transpired. It's been a good month of April for Bitcoin despite being a little bit rangebound earlier in the month. As you're seeing right now, we've moved back into that 90,000 territory.
Retaken that over the past few days here. Of course, crypto markets don't close. Trades 24 hours. And there you're seeing over the past 24 day or 20 days rather uh were higher by about 19% there. Actually, that was calibrating for trading days. But all in, if I was to put this on a year-to- date, you can kind of see what's transpired over the course of the year for Bitcoin where we're still net higher by about 1% over the And that's still the month-to- date view.
Hang on, let me get you the YTD chart. There we go. Year-to date, we're higher by about 4/10en of a percent. So, we'll continue to track that. Up 1% here on the day, though. Well, this week we're talking all things tech investing as we get results from some of the biggest names in the sector. uh before you start investing here, you got to understand that tech isn't just one thing.
It's an umbrella term with several other types underneath of it. So today, we want to break down the differences between all of the different tech categories. And for that, I'm joined by Luke O'Neal, Catalyst Dynamic Alpha Fund portfolio manager. Luke, great to have you here with us. Just start by explaining the three different types of tech companies that are out there in the market.
Hey, good morning, Brad. um great to join you today. Thanks for having uh me on. Um yeah, when we talk about tech investing, as we as you mentioned, it's not a monolithic concept. When we say we're investing in tech, it's not investing in just one thing. So typically we're talking about investing either in technology hardware sorts of companies uh and uh semiconductor companies being number two and then software and services number three.
So hardware, semis, software and services would be kind of your classic three um areas of of technology and then you add in things like social media which are let's call it tech adjacent uh which are uh you know certainly within the overall ecosystem and so within that where is the largest strength within technology in what is an uncertain environment that we've heard about from multiple CEOs over the course of this earning season? Well, uh, clearly the strength is, um, it's very dependent on the exact time frame that you're looking at it, um,
over, uh, over the last couple of years, we've seen some significant strength across most, um, of that, uh, of the of the entire ecosystem. And as we think about just over these last couple of months here, as we get the tariff headwinds, uh, as we get more of the global trade mess that is going on, you're seeing more strength in, uh, in areas that are less impacted by that specifically.
And that would tend to be areas like software. software being relatively safer uh from an impact on global trade since they are primarily a digital delivery uh cloud delivery type of idea uh as opposed to needing to manufacture their goods. Um and so hardware companies that are manufacturing more significantly overseas tend to be more exposed uh to uh to tariffs u and and some of the current geopolitical issues that we're facing today.
Uh the flip side to that though is quite frankly that the software companies because of their business model tend to trade at a much higher premium. Um and so when there is a flight to safety in the markets uh like we've seen over over much of the course of the last two or three months you still see a downdraft in many of the software names simply because they were trading at a high valuation multiple.
um as you get some questions about global growth that impacts corporate belt tightening perhaps and potential spend uh on on software. And so there are different factors that are playing in uh to to the downdraft that we're seeing in in different parts of tech. But clearly software would be kind of classically viewed as the as the safer uh from a global trade perspective in this current market environment. Okay.
Okay, so that considered, what is a healthy portfolio allocation to these different components within the technology sector, the different industries that sit underneath of that? Yeah. So, I again I think it depends a little bit on what your goal for a portfolio is. Um, in our in our fund, which is a classic trend following momentum oriented strategy, we actually have exposure to multiple to really all of those types of of technology.
So, we've had an overweight for the last couple years in that hardware area, which again over a medium-term perspective has continued to be uh a great place to be u in in the overall markets. Um, and we still think that there's plenty of opportunity in that space and and understanding that that that area of hardware is not monolithic even in its in its own case.
So you have a company like Flex uh which manufactures a tremendous amount of their electronic components overseas and is far more exposed to the global trade war sorts of issues relative to another holding of ours a company like Motorola Solutions. So Motorola uh clearly has some foreign uh manufacturing. They've moved largely away from China, but their enduser, their enduser, end buyer tends to be government entities and police forces that are using their two-way radios, um, etc.
Those tend to be critical infrastructure, uh, types of ideas, which, uh, uh, you know, the the the potential to pass through cost is much more significant there. Uh, and so you're seeing a a very different sort of action, um, in even different types of hardware stocks. But then we also have significant exposure within the software space to companies like CrowdStrike um which again are in a sweet spot from a secular growth perspective and are not uh tremendously impacted by uh by the current issues that are that are plaguing the the geopolitics um area of
the world. You think about semiconductors, clearly semiconductors are in the sweet spot of or or maybe maybe the opposite of that from a global trade perspective. Very sensitive to global trade concerns. Yeah. But semiconductors are also perhaps as strategic and as secular of an idea as you can think of from a from economic growth over the next decade perspective.
So having some exposure there continues to be important. Luke, I got 45 seconds left for this rule of 40 question. How should investors who are trying to figure out their exposures to the technology sector think about what is commonly known by many investors, analysts, and executives who run these businesses as the rule of 40 and how it spells out some of perhaps their investability profile as well.
Well, I guess I'm I'm not as familiar with the with the exact details of the rule of 40, so I won't um I I won't I won't answer that question real specifically, but we think that having that balanced exposure across hardware, software, semis, and even services is is really important to uh to a long-term portfolio. Absolutely.
And just as education for our viewers out there, essentially it's just the revenue growth rate plus the profit margin uh equal or exceeding 40% there, which really gives them a sense of what the perhaps future holds for a company that is trying to grow out and scale its business, hypers scale in some cases.
Luke, great to see you. Thanks for breaking this down for us. Thanks, Brad. Have a great day. You too. As markets continue to see volatility amid changing tariff policy, investors are looking for ways to diversify their portfolios. One way is alternative investing. Joining me now on this, we've got in studio live in Living Color, Dave Danahoo, who is the Franklin Templeton Wealth Management Alternatives head of America's.
Great to see you again. Great to see you, Brad. So, let's dive into this. As we're thinking about some of these alternative investments, there's so many different alts. It could be anything from uh real estate, private equity to, you know, Pokemon cards if you wanted to think about it that way. But there's also different levels of liquidity.
So, let's kind of rank these and perhaps go in order from the most liquid to the most illquid of what we're seeing in certain alternative investments. Where does one start? Yeah, it's it's a great question, Brad. If you think about liquidity, generally speaking, you're talking about the duration, how long I'm going to hold an asset.
Private equity, primary private equity would be considered one of the more illlquid components of of private markets. you move into things like private credit, generally speaking, the duration of that asset is shorter and private real estate at sometimes perhaps even shorter than private credit. So that's how I would think about the liquidity profile, but the vehicle you invest in matters to how frequently an individual investor can or cannot access their liquidity and that's a key part of the business as well. Okay.
And so which alternative investments from your assessment of the market are the most liquid right now. So, if you think about what's going on in the market, it reminds me of our last conversation. Tariff concerns, concerns of an economic slowdown, potentially uh a heightened risk of recession. That's introduced volatility to the public markets.
But remember, private markets price off fundamentals, not sediment and volatility. Generally speaking, the vehicles, private equity, private real estate, and private credit that have been built for the individual investor offer chances at liquidity monthly or quarterly. So, we advocate using them, using them in a responsible way because of what they do for your portfolio, potential to enhance returns, decrease volatility, and people are seeing the power of that right now.
But it shouldn't be 50, 60, 70% of your allocation. It's a part of your allocation where you can afford to give up liquidity for a period of time to enhance portfolio outcomes. And so with that in mind, how do investors who are just trying to round out their portfolio a bit more and add some more of that longer term duration on through an alternative investment? How do they begin dipping their toe in perhaps so to speak within this type of investment strategy? It's a great question.
A couple ideas. One, work with a trusted professional. Work with an adviser. Organizations like ours, and there's many out there that do the same, have built websites that are um direct access for individual investors, no login required, where you can learn about the asset classes and the role that they play in portfolios.
At the end of the day though, history would show you that allocating 10, 20, or in some cases maybe more to these asset classes as a percentage base of an overall portfolio can provide real value. And so with that in mind, as you're thinking about what type of returns you should expect longer term, what what's a good rule of thumb as you're looking at and assessing alternative investments? Appropriate disclosures out of the way that not everything is created equal and you have to pick the right manager.
Generally speaking, if history holds, you should expect a couple hundred basis points, a couple percentage higher return out of the private markets than you do in the public market equivalent. So let's break that down. Sure. Private equity, you should expect higher returns than public equity over the long term.
And you're seeking growth there. Private real estate, you're seeking growth in income, just like you would be in a public REIT, you should expect a couple hundred basis points, full market cycle of higher return. Private credit, you're seeking income. Same to bonds, a couple hundred basis points, full market cycle of higher return.
All with meaningfully less volatility, which helps smooth portfolio outcomes. What is the difference in upfront capital that's necessary for alternative investments kind of and I know it's differing but on aggregate as it compare the the great news is the industry has really evolved. So a decade ago historically the only folks that could allocate to alternatives were the ultra wealthy or institutional investors.
As an industry we've created these vehicles that are referred to as semi-liquid or perpetual vehicles. And in addition to letting money in and out more frequently, they they are made available to a broader accreditation of client. You have to have a lower net worth to invest and you can invest at a lower minimum.
So these tools are really becoming democratized, more available to the broad investor base, which is a good thing if you think about the outcomes folks are trying to achieve with their portfolios. Dave, great to see you. Thanks for joining us in studio. Thanks for having me, Brad. Absolutely. Coming up, consumer confidence is cratering.
How to make sure your finances are in order. That's next on [Music] Wealth. Consumer confidence fell again in April, according to the conference board. That's the fifth straight month of declines and the expectations index hitting its lowest level since 2011. That's well below the threshold that typically suggests an incoming recession.
And here with some advice for increasingly nervous consumers, we've got Michael Leish, Wells Fargo head of advice and planning in studio with us. Michael, it's good to see you again here. I mean, this is not fun data and a reading to talk about when it's showing a consumer that's a little tepid right now here on a consistent basis.
What do you make of this reading here? So, consumer confidence and and you saw the data specifically mentioned tariffs as a concern and I think that's key here, Brad. And so when we think of tariffs, we think of uncertainty. Uh consumers have undergone a lot with inflation rates. And so that's what we're seeing here is that consumer confidence just continues to decrease because there's still uncertainty with respect to how high prices will go and what should I do about it from a spending perspective.
Right Brad? Absolutely. And so as we think about that too, are our consumers I mean yes, consumers are still spending, but it's what they're spending on and how they're spending that is clearly changing here. What are you seeing within some of that data as well? So when we think of the data, you can really parse it into three types of spending.
One is and we'll label it doom spending, right? And given un uncertainty, I'm just going to engage in some type of re retail therapy and spend and really ignore what's going on around me. Uh the second one is really your panic spending. So I want to, you know, get ahead of supply chain issues. I want to get ahead of increasing inflation.
And the third type of spending is what we see actually most consumers engaging in. And we saw it in our Wells Fargo money study where uh over 80% of consumers want to be more intentional about their spending carve off money to save and invest for their future self just in case there is a recession just in case they have to manage through a job loss and then to ensure that they're looking out for their future.
So that speaks to a little bit of the potential panic buying that we might be seeing some of the current uncertainty and and within that certain uh that uncertainty rather it also comes back to what prospects look like for jobs in the employment front as well here. We actually had seen the job openings and labor turnover summary uh come out this morning.
Number of job openings essentially little changed 7.2 million in March and then additionally hires that held at 5.4 million. total separations also little changed here. And so all these things in mind, it really does influence how consumers are thinking about their employment prospects and that also kind of dovetailing into where they're willing to spend at this juncture as well.
Absolutely. So when you think about being concerned about keeping a job or getting a job, which is what you're alluding to, really this idea of saving becomes increasingly critical and not just saving for opportunistic investing. Yeah. Which I know you talk a lot about on this program.
Um it's really saving to and and it's like that traditional emergency fund, Brad, to make sure I have 6 months, 9 months, a year to accommodate my spending pattern so I wouldn't have to change anything dramatically. you know, take a child out of school, you know, you know, think about not getting that remodel done that I've always wanted to get done to manage through that job, let's call it shift or change.
And so, we see a lot of Americans really being more intentional about that and carving off money so that they can plan for that rainy day. All right. So, let's help people plan a little bit here. What are your tips for managing finances right now in this type of environment that consumers are clearly thinking through? So, what we see in our data is not everyone has a goals-based plan, Brad.
And I know a lot of people talk about it, but they don't do it. And so, taking action on that goals-based plan, figuring out what is a top priority for you tactically. So right now your essential expenses and stress testing that what could you lower to manage through a cycle all the way to those long-term goals like retirement.
When are you going going to retire? Are you in retirement? How long is that retirement going to be? How much do you need to manage through those essential expenses? That's really critical get to get in place. Number one priority. Number two is look at the asset allocation. And you've been talking about this with different folks that you're investing toward.
Does it need to change? Does your risk profile need to adjust? Because over the past couple years, maybe there are certain positions that have gotten larger because they've run up in value. Maybe there are other positions that, you know, have less in value and you could do a little bit of tax loss harvesting and rebalance that portfolio so it's in the right risk profile for you.
Well, I'm not sure if you watched any of our segments about the micro retirements that Gen Z and millennials are powering, but I mean, look, it's got a lot of us trying to think about kicking the tires on that in the interim period of time. about managing investments right now, which is something that you you started to touch on there a moment ago as well.
How are you seeing people manage investments as they are trying to figure out where they can disperse cash versus where they also need to continue making sure they're being aggressive in their saving and investing habits as well. So, you talked about this with your uh prior guest Dave, this idea of liquidity.
People are really focused on liquidity in their portfolio. And so, you can think of that as a line of credit, you know, that's backed by their investments. You can think of that as more liquid investments and making sure you have access to cash in a bank account as well. So, people are really focused on this liquidity profile.
Then from there, looking at their mid to long-term investment strategy and trying to stay the course with the risks that they've signed up for based on three factors. The goal, the time horizon or duration of the investment because time in the markets, Brad, you know, this is better than market timing. We've seen, you know, the ups and downs of the markets, best and worst days, very close together.
We just saw it over the past couple weeks, right? Watched them. We watched them firsthand. So, you don't want to turn and burn your portfolio by following the herd. So, sticking with that plan and then dollar cost averaging into that plan so that you ride the ups and that you invest on the dips, Brad. That's really the core approach that we see investors taking right now.
I still have videos on my phone from some of the worst days and some of the best days that we've seen for major averages while I was on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. Michael, thanks so much for taking the time here with us today, breaking this down. Thank you, Brad. I appreciate it. Coming up, everyone, if you were affected by a natural disaster, your taxes could be due this week.
And we're breaking it all down next on [Music] Wealth. Millions of Americans were impacted by hurricanes in 2024. In light of the disaster, the IRS extended the tax deadline for some affected taxpayers in Alabama, Georgia, Florida, and the Carolinas to May 1st. If you're one of them and want to make sure everything goes smoothly, we have Andy Phillips, H&R Block, vice president of the Tax Institute. Andy, good to see you here.
Where can taxpayers find their extended deadline? Sure. So, first, thank you for having me. And as you mentioned, you know, tax day has passed for the vast majority of Americans, but we had a lot of natural disasters in 2024 and early 2025. For folks impacted by those disasters, they may have an extended deadline.
You referenced down in the southeast, we have several states or portions of states that are extended at least until May 1st, so a couple days from now. Uh, North Carolina gets a little longer until September. And then we have other areas like California um where you know folks impacted by the uh the fires that occurred um you know not too long ago have until October to file their 2025 or 2024 tax returns.
And so the best place to go to determine if you uh you know if you may have an extended deadline is to go to the IRS website. They have a complete listing or h&rblock.com. We can help you as well. So if you are allowed to file late, what you should what should you be aware of in that instance? Absolutely.
So the first thing is, you know, don't wait till that last second to do it, especially if you were impacted by the disaster. Maybe you had a casualty loss, meaning you had some loss to business property or your home or a vehicle that wasn't fully reimbursed by insurance and you may be able to claim a casualty loss. In some instances, you may be able to get that money back quicker by filing a prior year amendment to get that money back or to claim that loss.
Um, you may also need help reconstructing your records if you lost some of your paperwork. And so, it's really important that people don't wait till the last minute to do that, but instead, you know, get ahead of it now. Understand what benefits may be eligible to me and what else may I need to get together to file my tax return this year. Shifting gears here.
If you owed the IRS money this year, what should you do right now to make sure that that doesn't happen again next year? Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. You know, so one of the things I love to talk about during tax season is don't use that kind of tax, you know, preparation experience as just a look back on last year, but use it as an opportunity to make that plan going forward um to say, I want to get the best possible outcome next year when I go to file.
If you haven't done that, I'm going to give you two ways you can adjust your withholdings or your taxes to get a different outcome next year. If you're an employee, you can update what's called your W4 with your employer. That's what they use to determine how much tax to withheld uh from to withhold from each of your paychecks.
Now, if you're self-employed, you can adjust how much you make in quarterly estimated payments during the year again to account for, hey, I've had life changes or I didn't like my outcome when I filed a few weeks ago and I want to change that for next year. And here at H&R Block, we offer our clients a current uh a courtesy midyear check to avoid any of those surprises.
So, for instance, the W4, it's kind of like a mini tax return. if you're confused by it, good opportunity to get help because then you have, you know, an outcome that won't be a surprise when you go to file a little less than a year from now. Just lastly, we only got about 30 seconds here for those who are trying to figure out which of the deductions they can expect to roll off that they should start to really budget for this year.
What are the top ones that could come into into play once you're getting ready for next year's filing? Do you mean by like a change of law? Certainly. Yeah. So, the vast majority of the individual provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, that was that first uh President Trump tax package, those don't expire till the end of 2025.
So, the benefits that you, you know, you may have taken advantage of on your 2024 return. By and large, those are going to be available again this year. We'll have to see what, if anything, Congress passes and if there's anything that impacts 2025. But in general right now, what was available in 2024 should be available in 2025 again.
It will be 2026 when we see those provisions start to expire. Andy, great reminder. Thanks so much for taking the time. Thank you for having me. We're following breaking news. Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik confirming that tariff relief is coming to the auto sector. Lutnik saying that tariff relief will be available to all USbuilt vehicles and cars that are finished in the US and will not be imposed to tariffs.
Meanwhile, tariffs will apply to foreign car makers building cars in the US. The manufacturers will get a 15% offset for the value of those vehicles against parts imports. According to Secretary Lutnik, tariff relief will be phased in over three years to allow automakers to produce supply chains in the US. This is the latest as we're continuing to track some of the auto tariff exemptions that the industry had been looking for.
That's it for wealth everyone. I'm Brad Smith. Thank you for watching. You can stay tuned for Market Domination coming up at 3 p.m. Eastern time. [Music]
Made with ❤️ byGlasp