Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English - CC1
English (auto-generated)
Welcome back, Friends to Morning Trade Live. So glad you're with me. It's time to go inside out on industrials. Joining me right now. Jonathan Secreta is with us VP Equity Research at Cfra research. Thank you so much for being with us Jonathan. We'll start with Honeywell, which is up about 4% helping to propel the Dow higher.
Up over 100 points for the Dow. Overall the Dow is up over 100 points. But Honeywell is contributing. What stood out in the report to you? Good morning Nicole. Thanks for having me. So very strong quarter. This is a pretty good day for Honeywell investors. What stood out is, as you said for Sophie Technologies, right. A beat and a raise is pretty remarkable in this current environment.
And that's what we got with Honeywell International a very strong beat to top line, over $200 million higher than the consensus A beat on earnings as well as a raise to the from the lower end of guidance, which is very remarkable, especially for industrials where we've seen a lot of reaffirming targets but not much in the way of raises.
So I'd say really just the amount of confidence. As far as management's tone on offsetting tariffs, I think we've really seen a transition in global supply chains in recent years as far as de-risking, to avoid some of the headaches we saw in 2021, 2022. We're seeing some of the fruits there being barred on supply chain management today in Honeywell's earnings print.
So is Honeywell a standout in the industrial sector or are there several. And we're going to get to caterpillar in a moment. But is the industrial sector a sector that could do well in light of the current situation, whether it's tariffs or economy? Even before tariffs were implemented, we had a pretty strong view at Cfra that really a lot of industrial firms would do quite well, is offsetting tariff impacts to the bottom line.
I mean, keep in mind that the trade war is really picked up in 2018. Then you had in 2021, 2022, global supply chain crisis spurred by the Covid pandemic. So for the past several years, there's been a shift to what's called local for local manufacturing, where manufacturers produce goods, where that end market consumer is, as well as dual sourcing.
So making sure they're not overly exposed to just one country as far as getting a proper components and materials, particularly China, we've seen in trade data lower reliance on China since 2018, as far as their importance as a trade partner. And a lot of this is also being fleshed out by industrial firms.
So I think really broadly, we've seen a lot of confidence from industrial firms as far as offsetting impacts from tariffs on the bottom line. Now, as far as demand, that's a different story. There's a lot less visibility there. That's not something that industrial firms can control. They can control how they adjust pricing and how they resource certain components and materials.
But as far as demand, we'll have to see how that shakes out later in the year. Obviously, if we were to enter a recession due to just a complete lack of trade deals, then that would really change the story here. But as of right now, it's a great start to the year for industrials and a lot of confidence as far as defending margins. Understood.
And where does caterpillar fit into the big picture and what do you expect to hear from this company which right now is in six months down 20% I should say three months. It's three months. It's down 20%. Right. Caterpillar's had certainly hit a rough patch. We've seen a lot of revisions lower on their guidance.
So in contrast to Honeywell we've we've had a buy in Honeywell. We like their portfolio transformation potential as far as unlocking value. Caterpillar we've had it at a hold. We're kind of neutral to bearish on the name. Really demand has just really failed to materialize for caterpillar. They've certainly kind of hit a more resistance as far as cyclical headwinds for the demand for large capital equipment.
Now we have actually rated a competitor or at least adjacent company United Rental as a strong buy because we think this higher interest rate environment really does lend to demand for rentals over the commitment of capital to purchase outright. So we do think there's been some market share loss there to rental firms as far as completing construction projects and kind of an uncertain macro environment coupled with higher interest rates.
So United Rentals URI is at 625 today. You mentioned you have a strong buy on it. What's your price target on your Re $825 right now. So a pretty good amount of upside from here. And really it's almost entirely exposed to US markets. So it doesn't really have to worry as much about demand destruction in terms of overseas.
So we think it's a good name as far as insulation from tariffs relatively speaking, as well as like I said, we believe there's some market share take right now as there's there is a growing preference towards rentals over outright purchases kind of taking away from from Caterpillar's growth. Very interesting. Okay.
Strong buy on United rentals the buy with a 245 target on Honeywell and a hold on caterpillar in 390 target. Jonathan great to see you from Cfra research. Jonathan, thanks for those names today. Good. Look at those industrials. And now we're going to trade it with Tom white host of Fast Market. Good morning to you.
Tom White you're watching Honeywell closely I mentioned what a winner was. We were saying it's unusual to see these companies with beat and a raise. How would you go about trading a name like Honeywell. Well the first thing you do is, you know, having a nice little pop here today. Still off about about 15% from those recent highs.
I don't think it's immune to maybe Paul's pullbacks in the overall market. And I think that's a concern for every stock. This earnings season. So even even though we're seeing the nice pop I think you want to be cautious on this one. And that's the way I look at looked at this from an example trade perspective, where I went out a few weeks out to the May 23rd weekly cycle.
So just about three and a half weeks to expiration and taking a bullish stance, but at the same time remaining conservative on this type of strategy. Selling a put vertical sell the 205 strike put out of the money to the downside, and then to make a risk to fine, because we all know that things can get a little bit hairy here during earnings season by the 195 strike put against it.
So a short $10 wide put vertical. You're going to collect roughly about a 250 credit on it. That's what you can make $250 per spread with $750 in risk, but takes her break even all the way down to 202 50 to the downside. That's about 4% below the current share price in Honeywell. So while it's still a bullish stance type of strategy, you're giving yourself that nice cushion to the downside before you get hurt on on a trade like this. All right.
And last but not least here you're trading caterpillar. And that's ahead of the report for tomorrow a name that has been beaten down. It's 20% off in three months. Some of your thoughts there. Yeah. In bear market territory going into this report the option market is pricing in about a plus or minus just over $15 move either way in the stock.
So about 5% either way. You know you have to wonder what they're going to say in the commentary is going to be around the tariffs, especially out of China, as they provide a lot of machinery over in Asia. So that's going to be a concern for this company. But maybe the pullback that we've seen in the stock from those all time highs in November is already taking place here. Right.
So I looked at a strategy. If you're bullish on this name this is the type of strategy that works out. And it takes advantage of volatility dispersion between the different options series. So going really short term positioning going out to the November 9th weekly cycle. So ten days to expiration. We're going to buy something at the money.
The 305 strike call that's got that higher Delta reacts more like the stock. And then then in the near term May 2nd weekly options that expire in just three days. We're going to sell the 320 strike call. So it sets up right with that one standard deviation move where you want the stock to go at or near 320 or just higher, right $15 wide bullish call diagonal.
You're paying roughly about an $8 debit for it. So almost half the width of that spread. So why is that. Well it's that vol dispersion I talked about where you're buying 48% implied volatility on aggregate in that May 9th weekly 305 strike calls and then selling about a 73% implied volatility in the May 2nd. Weekly options on that 320 strike.
So that vol dispersion or differential actually lowers the price input and that lowers your risk, which is about $800 per spread. Now, where do you start to profit on a strategy like this? About 310 to the upside on this one. So anything above that level is going to be profitability on this type of trade. Now if you're bearish on this one it's all about the strategy.
Maybe you want to buy a put diagonal instead using those same options series to take advantage of that dispersion. But this example is just a bullish trade where if you think this thing is going to go higher about that one standard deviation or more, this takes advantage of it. Understood. And as you mentioned in bear market territory.
So maybe it has a chance for that. Thank you
Made with ❤️ byGlasp