Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English - CC1
English (auto-generated)
trading 360. I'm Diane King Hall. Time now for the big three. Three stocks, three charts, three trades. Ben Watson will take us through the charts. And here to take us through the trades. We've got Jessica Inskip director of investor research stockbrokers.com. It is great to see both of you. All right Jessica let's start out with the first one on your list.
You've got Fastenal in your sight. It's been outperforming the S&P 500 year to date. Take us through your thesis here. Yeah absolutely. And it goes with really my overall macro view I think there's a ceiling of uncertainty within the market right now. Right. We need to see earnings follow through. And that could certainly help get us to that resistance point.
However that uncertainty in relation to tariffs, companies don't know how to really manage. If you don't know how to manage, I think we're going to get less forward looking guidance. If we have less forward looking guidance, it's still uncertainty, which means the market needs that to come back in.
Also, watching the ten year, five year seems the or 5% seems to be where Bessant is really paying attention to. And on his notes this morning, he talked a lot about how he felt these tariffs weren't supply chain issues because he talks to all of the small businesses, but for me it feels rather Covid esque because we were considering supply chain issues.
There was an excess inventory that's good in the short run for inflation, but very bad in the long run for inflation, which means giving you that macro. Diane, I'm still positioning my portfolio to prepare for a really volatile market. Okay. Well, I haven't seen anyone say that volatility is gone. Ben you're up.
Take us through the chart for this one. Fair enough. And I like what Jessica said about that approaching resistance and some earnings follow through. Because that's exactly what we're seeing here on Fastenal. Now you talk about a company that has the potential to face some supply chain challenges from tariff issues.
You know, once these companies that that Fastenal supplies, once they run through that peanut butter can of or jar of bolts and nuts, they're going to have to start resupplying. And that's where Fastenal is going to have to pass on some of those costs. But you take a look at what's going on with the stock post this earnings announcement a couple of weeks ago.
And you see that big strong move, some big green candles a lot of momentum to the upside. In fact that even accelerates the 200 period moving average higher. But now running into that resistance around the 82 mark. And you see about a week's worth of time in that uncertainty where there's that sideways up and down, we see almost alternating or piano keys type of candles here where it goes red, green, red, green, red, green.
And then now we're below that that 80 level of support. So the challenge is gaining some traction moving back up above the 82, which to be fair, if you go back into November that was a double top resistance. So we're banging our heads here with Fastenal up into an area of some available selling pressure. Once that's worked through, there's the possibility to move higher.
But the question is, I mean, the market liked what they said on the earnings announcement. Buyers are stepping in. We see a little bit of a bullish bias towards that RSI. A little bit of a bullish divergence. Can it break through this area of maybe oversupply or selling pressure. And if it can do it and it can do it fast, then we maybe see this move out to some new highs here Diane. All right.
Well that is a question that we don't have the answer to yet. But Jessica, you want to leave us with any final thoughts on Fastenal before we move on to your next trade? Yeah, they tend to gain market share during periods of uncertainty. Tariffs are certainly uncertainty. That's a positive. And on an earnings note manufacturing demand was soft but it was stable.
And that's what we're looking for from a macro view. And a micro view is stability. And so anything that has stability again low beta high dividend yield stock great to add to the portfolio. And my personal view to smooth out volatility overall. All right so let's talk about your next pick on your list.
You've got Costco on your shopping list I have to say I joined Costco recently for the first time. Don't ask me why I held out for so long. But I will say I was overwhelmed walking in there and only walked out with one thing my first time there. But tell us about your views on this one. Jessica. Yeah, I think I saw your thread on that actually. Diane.
So come with a list. But Costco, it has pricing power and it's a different type of experience. So the fact that you had a different experience in comparison to where you would normally get your groceries speaks to its unique membership and revenue based model that it has. There is a subscription model that's there.
There are loyal customer relationships, which helps it outperform its traditional retailers, and they're really focusing on e-commerce. So there's Costco next. There's a new partnership. Even with Uber in this day and age we like convenience. So lots of opportunity there from a pricing power standpoint, which is extremely helpful in this environment.
What we want to look at in a tariff or perhaps inflationary driven environment, and of course, that e-commerce lens as well is just a plus and icing on the cake. All right. Plus an icing on the cake, which there was I'm sure I saw a cake there. Huge cakes. I'm sure they're at Costco since everything is large there. But Ben, take us through what the chart looks like for Costco and what trends you're paying attention to here.
Yeah, I don't know if it's icing on the cake or mustard on the dollar 50 hot dog that's driving consumers to the to the stores. But again, it's the resiliency of their model that has been driving this upward performance in the price of the stock. So this is a nine month chart. This is generally if we were to expand this to a longer time frame, you're going to see the same type of trend.
The 200 period moving average has been very stable. It's kind of leveled off as we saw in that March time frame on the last earnings announcement, a bit of a break down below that diagonal uptrend line. It's trying struggling valiantly to regain that line. So I think what this resistance level that we see, which is now right about the $1,000 mark, big round number that may very well be a read on the resiliency of consumer spending, especially on their high end products like TVs and those types of things. But you
still see some RSI movement. So that relative strength index, giving you the idea that it's echoing what price movement is doing. Buyers are still gaining momentum. They're just having a hard time breaking above this previous resistance. It doesn't mean that the stock is moving lower yet. It would have to break down below around this 900 to maybe 875 range where you've got some support, but it neither is it making new highs yet.
So it's kind of in that middle zone here where it's struggling to break back up into kind of the upper quadrant of where it has been most bullish recently. Diane. Yeah, I just wonder if that is also just because of the simple fact that thousand dollar stocks are expensive. And when you get to four digit stocks, it's just really hard to break through.
And I know there's been talk recently about, you know, the potential for them to do a stock split. But Jessica, any final thoughts on Costco before we take a look at your final trade? Yeah, absolutely. It looks like some defensive plays are rotating out and it's coming into cyclical which boils down into earnings. So I would expect to see that softness.
And it all goes back to that overall ceiling of uncertainty that's on the broader market. That really shows positioning. All right let's talk about your final trade Berkshire Hathaway the class B shares. Take us through your views here Jessica. Yeah looking at the class B shares. So it's what I'm calling a smart broad market play because Berkshire Hathaway class A or B is not an ETF. It is.
It is a common stock. But Berkshire Hathaway has been up 16.9% year to date. It has outperformed the S&P 500 and a lot of sectors. And we're going into the famous shareholder meeting, which means we're going to hear a lot about Warren Buffett's views on the market. He has a lot of exposure to treasuries, insurance and a lot of other businesses.
But those treasuries are cash equivalent, and investors are going to want to know this out of the box indicator, if you will, as where that positioning is going to come into play. And I believe he's going to say sit and wait, as in that is still a movement, is we're not doing anything. As in, he wants to deploy that cash, but we need certainty to do that.
So it's going to be interesting to see his perspective as well. But treasuries, as volatile as they have become in the grand scheme in comparison to history, are still giving higher yields in comparison since we haven't seen since the great financial crisis. So having that type of exposure added to your portfolio, as well as some stock picking from Warren Buffett and team, I think is a great play to add to the longer term portfolio. Okay. All right.
So Ben, your turn. Take us through what you're paying attention to when it comes to the chart for Berkshire. For sure. And one of the big things to pay attention to is this resistance. At the 540 mark, you can see that from a price perspective, the stock has been running up into that 540 maybe as the top side of a bit of an ascending triangle.
It's pretty steep coming up off of a bounce off of the 200 period, which has been resilient as a level of support going up this line, but some movement trying to get through this. 540 that's been really the biggest challenge, the RSI falling off a little bit. One thing to think about, they've got an earnings announcement coming up over the horizon here next week.
But think about this. As investors have rotated into Brk.b as kind of that broad diversification. If tech leaders if new leaders emerge, this could be the piggy bank that gets rotated to take advantage of some of those tech leadership opportunities. So you could see some short term rotation back down, perhaps to that 200 period moving average.
So that resistance level may be indicating a point at which investors are willing to peel back some of this diversification, protection that they've been putting on, and look for some of those leadership opportunities where things have been beaten up significantly more so than this stock has been, Diane. All right. Great insight there.
And Jessica, final thoughts from you on either Berkshire or either of your other picks. Yeah, just the overall market I think I'm calling it the ceiling of uncertainty. I'm going to continue to say that until we have certainty, we're not going to see too many movements higher. So in my view, it's positioning with lower beta to smooth out the volatility, add some dividend yield.
And of course let's watch one of the biggest weeks that we have in earnings this week. Oh yeah huge week for earnings for members of the Mag seven reporting this week. Thank you Jessica. That's Jessica Inskip with
Made with ❤️ byGlasp