Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
For more on the latest market moves, let's welcome in now Gargi Chowdery, Black Rockck, chief investment and portfolio strategist, America's Gargi, it is great to see you as always. Uh, you know, obviously a lot of uncertainty and uneasiness um with the tariffs and trade tensions, the policy uncertainty today.
Of course, the headlines all about Trump giving gy some relief. Gargy, um, you think the volatility, I know, is going to remain relatively elevated from here against that backdrop. How are you telling clients they should be thinking about committing their capital? Good afternoon and thank you for having me. It's great to be on.
And to your point, obviously I was listening to your show earlier and there is a little bit of relief in the markets both in the stocks as well as in the bond markets and that's welcome. We want to see that. But I think if we take a a little bit of a step back and you know we wrote about this in our outlook that we just published yesterday, our spring investment directions, but we just say that I think it's hard to believe that we're going to go back to sort of that, you know, call it 2020 to 2024 period where we had relatively muted
volatility. And right now with the headline risk still remaining somewhat high, we think more and more investors should think about adding some ways to protect against higher volatility and adding more diversifiers in their portfolio. So that's the thesis of how you should be adding ways in which you can reduce the volatility, reduce the beta and add diversifiers in your portfolio for the for the next couple of months.
So Gari, let's talk it's truly it's good to see you. Let's talk first then about that volatility muting piece of it. How does one do that in this environment? So you know one of the things that we were uh noticing was many clients were asking us if this is the period that they should be moving back to cash and we've obviously seen historic inflows into money market funds and we've obvious obviously seen cash on the sidelines call it 8 trillion or so.
Instead of that move, what we're telling investors, those investors that are a little bit more afraid about some of the price action that they saw between sort of earlier this year to call it April 12th or so, what we're telling them to do is take a more defensive stance and add to solutions like US minimum volatility, which again it allows you to stay invested in the markets, but just reduces the volatility experience, reduces the beta of your portfolio just a little bit.
So on the days that the market is down, you just lose a little bit less. And of course, you still stay in the markets. You're still invested in US equities. So that's one way. So consider minimum volatility strategies. But then secondly, one of the other questions that have been coming up a lot is the behavior of bonds, especially here, I'm talking about long bonds in particular that didn't quite give you the balance that you were hoping for.
um especially in the volatility in early April. So this is where we're telling investors number one continue to move your focus in fixed income to the front end of the market to the belly of the market and only on income generating securities in the fixed income market. Add in some inflation protection, some shorterdated inflation protected bond securities and then think about other diversifiers like in for example gold that has done very well in this sort of geopolitically uh fraught environment and also other alternatives like liquid
alts and market neutral strategies that don't have as much beta. Gar, I'm curious when you're meeting with those those very smart Black Rockck clients, what's top of mind for them right now? What are the big questions you seem to get the most? Yeah, so the big thing that's coming up is US versus the rest of the world as you can imagine and again listening to your shows I know you've been talking about that a lot.
um sort of you know what what to make of this international outperformance especially since you know we look at our own advisor portfolios and the data that we gather where we find that uh investors and advisers are quite underweight international exposures and you know rightfully so over the last decade or more they've done very well having that underweight and having an uh overweight to the US.
So one question that is coming up more and more is is this a change? Should we reallocate back to international markets? And we are addressing exactly that question in our outlook by talking about ways in which you should be diversified in the international markets. We certainly think you should have exposure to international markets.
And then the second question that's coming up quite a bit is uh is around sort of you know the diversification that we talked about. you know, if we're slowing down in growth, are we going into a recession? We don't quite know yet, but we know we're going to slow down in growth and maybe pick up a little bit in inflation.
Um, so in that environment, how should we think about portfolio hedging? So you've talked a little bit about that volatility muting, you've talked a little bit about hedging through that uh lens international, but I know that technology is also still a part of the strategy here because I guess on the one hand you want to minimize risk, but on the other hand, you still want to maximize returns.
So is is that is that the the the sort of thinking behind still turning to technology? Julie, absolutely. And I was about to get to that that while for some investors the volatility has been a little bit alarming and they have asked us about sort of looking to reduce volatility whether that be through minimum volatility strategies or option overlays.
Other investors are actually using this as an opportunity to add back to risk. And this is where we're telling them what we think is the most exciting opportunity here is to continue to add to those mega trends that we think will be with us for quarters and years. And AI is obviously top of mind and obviously big week with earnings and learning more about the capex plans of some of these large AI hyperscalers.
But recognizing that this theme is going to stay with us for a long time and now we're getting a chance to get back into these themes um at somewhat of a you sort of discounted level to where we were at the peak. Guardian, final question. You know, as investors look for opportunities right now overseas, there's been plenty of strategies who've come on this show and banging the table for Europe.
Um you also point out though Latin America. Why Latin America? Why emphasize there? Absolutely. And we do think that there are pockets of Europe that absolutely make sense and European financials and we're talking about European value a little bit that we think completely make sense and you know going active with international but the other often overlooked area to your point is Latam which isn't a region that many investors have specific allocations to and in this rewiring of sort of uh you know what's happening right now with geopolitical fragmentations and some of
the rewiring of supply chains that's going to happen of course as a result of tariffs. We think that their pockets of Latin America and Brazil and Mexico come to mind which we think might be the beneficiaries and could also benefit from having some cheaper valuations compared to the US and parts of the European market.
So, you know, think about some of the exposures especially as I said in Mexico and Brazil as another way of thinking about diversification in your portfolio. Gardi, good to see you. Thanks so much for joining us. Thank you for having
Made with ❤️ byGlasp