Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
[Music] Hello and welcome to Market Domination. I'm Julie Hyman. That's Josh Lipton. Live from our New York City headquarters, we are giving you the ultimate investing playbook to help tune out the noise and make the right moves for your money. And here's Headline Blitz, getting you up to speed one hour before the closing bell rings on Wall Street.
Breaking news. Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik confirming that tariff relief is coming to the auto sector. Lutnik saying that tariff relief will be available to all USbuilt vehicles and cars that are finished in the US and will not be imposed to tariffs. Meanwhile, tariffs will apply to foreign car makers building cars in the US.
The manufacturers will get a 15% offset for the value of those vehicles against parts imports. According to Secretary Lutnik, tariff relief will be phased in over 3 years to allow automakers to produce supply chains in the US. This is a hostile and political act by Amazon. So this is another reason why Americans should buy American.
It's another reason why we are onshoring critical supply chains here at home to shore up our own critical supply chain uh and boost our own manufacturing here. If you look at uh what consumers are telling us about jobs availability, they expect that uh it to be really really poor.
So that index is actually uh at its highest level uh since the great recession. The index that tells us that consumers expect fewer jobs available. We got 1 hour to go until the market close. We're taking a look at the major averages here which are pressing higher. We had some earnings coming out today that seems to be helping drive the narrative in addition to that tariff relief.
Although as we're going to get into in a moment it's very complicated but in any case the Dow is higher today about by about 300 almost 350 points about 9/10en of 1% the S&P up about 2/3 and the NASDAQ up about the same today. We did have some economic data today and relative to expectations, consumer confidence was weak, labor data was weak, but we are grinding higher in today's trade.
I I do wonder whether the White House is playing a role here because you did see Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik. He gave an an interview this afternoon, Julie, um where he said there was or suggested there was a a major trade deal close to being announced. Which country? I don't know. What's the timeline? I don't know. But this is but this is to to the point this is why some folks are like I'm not gonna I can't short a market where I have a headline pop and we and we grind. Yeah.
I mean and the president also spoke to reporters this afternoon. He said oh we're talking to India. We're talking to this one. We're talking to that one. Yeah. But there's nothing on the dotted line as of yet. But you know as you say people are just sort of waiting to see when all of that is coming.
If you look at what's moving here within the market under the hood, of course, we've got a lot of MAG 7 earnings that are still on deck here um ahead of some of the the numbers that we're going to get this week. You've got Alphabet, Amazon, Tesla trading lower. Amazon we're going to get into a little bit later.
Those shares down about a tenth of 1%. But not big moves here today. It feels like a more muted session at least when you're looking at the NASDAQ 100. When you're looking at sectors on the move here today, materials is the best performing group. Energy down the most. And just let's look at the Dow real quick because we did have um some earnings uh numbers from the Dow just equal weighting it so we can get a look at what's moving.
Um you've got Honeywell for example that's higher. We're going to talk more about that a little bit later in the show. So we are seeing some earnings related moves that are happening in in today's market as well. Yeah. And to your point, maybe you know relatively muted makes sense just given as you're pointing out, Julie, still the wave of news you have coming this week.
Big earnings on on deck, big economic data still on deck. Yeah, definitely. Well, the auto industry finally receiving some clarity, some clarity from the White House. For more, we're bringing in Yahoo Finance senior autos reporter Prosman and Brass. Um, what what are these new rules that we're just learning about here? You know, we heard about some of these early this morning when some of this news was coming out with the journal report about how we're going to get possibly two stages of relief here for the automakers. They were desperately
seeking some relief here from, you know, 25% uh import tariffs, right? So, basically, uh the first part is the the the White House doesn't want to de want they want to destack some of these tariffs, right? They don't want to have automakers pay 25% import tariffs as well as um your your steel and aluminum tariffs or China fentinel tariffs.
What they're going to do is they're going to say you're going to pay one of one of these, the highest one. That'll be your only tariff there. You're not going to stack them on top of each other. Uh which is something that will be will be helpful for the automakers that are importing. But also, more importantly, there's going to be a auto parts exemption here.
So, they're kind of they're going to stage this in uh in two two ways. So, basically, in the first year, uh you'll get up to an amount of 3.75% of the value of the car uh based on the imported parts you're bringing in. You'll get that as as an offset. uh the formula kind of works out in such a way that they figured out that 15% of the parts coming in for cars made in the US, they just can't be replaced or onshored here.
So, they're going to give you that money back. It's a complicated equation. Basically, it's 15% times 25% tariff gets you to 3.75%. That's going to be backed out of the price of the car is going to give you an offset for tariffs. I know it's really complicated, but that's just sort of where we are right now.
And that's going to give uh American companies some time to onshore some of the stuff. In two years, that'll that'll go away. And that's sort of where we are with the tariffs. A little bit of relief here, but still very complicated and still nowhere near where we were before the whole tariff situation started. So PR, you know, bottom line, if I was a CEO, I was running one of these auto companies, how do you think those CEOs are feeling today? I mean, is it is it a a big sigh of relief? Is it more of well, you know, I'll I'll take any relief I can get. What do you think
they're thinking? That's a good I think it's a mixture of I'll take whatever relief I can get and also and also some genuine relief. I mean Ford CO Jim Farley said this this is good news. So did Stalantis's chairman Johan Elkman and Mary Barrow as well talking about how this is good for the auto industry and they want to work with the Trump administration to to keep pushing forward here to make sure that you know they're they're making cars in the US but also in a in a manner that isn't going to uh punish the automakers.
So I think that's it's it's a positive step right now that we're going to see here uh especially with the auto parts exemptions. So yes, it is positive, but still I don't think they got all they wanted, but it's enough that they can actually at least offset some of those those parts that are coming that they can't replicate here in the US.
All right, PR, thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. For more on the latest market moves, let's welcome in now Gari Chowdery Black Rockck chief investment and portfolio strategist Americas. Gari, it is great to see you as always. uh you know obviously a lot of uncertainty and uneasiness um with the tariffs and trade tensions the policy uncertainty today of course the headlines all about Trump giving give these auto companies some relief gorgi um you think the volatility I know is going to remain relatively elevated from here against that backdrop
how are you telling clients they should be thinking about committing their capital good afternoon and thank you for having me it's great to be on and to your point obviously I was listening to your show earlier and there is a little bit of relief in the markets both in the stocks as well as in the bond markets and that's welcome. We want to see that.
But I think if we take a a little bit of a step back and you know, we wrote about this in our outlook that we just published yesterday, our spring investment directions, where we just say that I think it's hard to believe that we're going to go back to sort of that, you know, call it 2020 to 2024 period where we had relatively muted volatility.
And right now with the headline risk still remaining somewhat high, we think more and more investors should think about adding some ways to protect against higher volatility and adding more diversifiers in their portfolio. So that's the thesis of how you should be adding ways in which you can reduce the volatility, reduce the beta and add diversifiers in your portfolio for the for the next couple of months. So Gari, let's talk it's Julie.
It's good to see you. Let's talk first then about that volatility muting piece of it. How does one do that in this environment? So you know one of the things that we were uh noticing was many clients were asking us if this is the period that they should be moving back to cash and we've obviously seen historic inflows into money market funds and we've obvious obviously seen cash on the sidelines call it 8 trillion or so.
Instead of that move, what we're telling investors, those investors that are a little bit more afraid about some of the price action that they saw between sort of earlier this year to call it April 12th or so, what we're telling them to do is take a more defensive stance and add to solutions like US minimum volatility, which again it allows you to stay invested in the markets, but just reduces the volatility experience, reduces the beta of your portfolio just a little bit.
So on the days that the market is down, you just lose a little bit less. And of course, you still stay in the markets. You're still invested in US equities. So that's one way. So consider minimum volatility strategies. But then secondly, one of the other questions that have been coming up a lot is the behavior of bonds, especially here, I'm talking about long bonds in particular, that didn't quite give you the balance that you were hoping for.
um especially in the volatility in early April. So this is where we're telling investors number one continue to move your focus in fixed income to the front end of the market to the belly of the market and only on income generating securities in the fixed income market. Add in some inflation protection, some shorterdated inflation protected bond securities and then think about other diversifiers like in for example gold that has done very well in this sort of geopolitically uh fraud environment and also other alternatives like liquid oils
and market neutral strategies that don't have as much beta. Garnia, I'm curious when you're meeting with those those very smart black rockck clients, what's top of mind for them right now? What are the big questions you seem to get the most? Yeah, so the big thing that's coming up is US versus the rest of the world as you can imagine and again listening to your shows I know you've been talking about that a lot.
um sort of you know what what to make of this international outperformance especially since you know we look at our own advisor portfolios and the data that we gather where we find that uh investors and advisers are quite underweight international exposures and you know rightfully so over the last decade or more they've done very well having that underweight and having auh overweight to the US so one question that is coming up more and more is is this a change.
Should we reallocate back to international markets? And we are addressing exactly that question in our outlook by talking about ways in which you should be diversified in the international markets. We certainly think you should have exposure to international markets. And then the second question that's coming up quite a bit is uh is around sort of you know the diversification that we talked about.
You know, if we're slowing down in growth, are we going into a recession? we don't quite know yet, but we know we're going to slow down in growth and maybe pick up a little bit in inflation. Um, so in that environment, how should we think about portfolio hedging? So, you've talked a little bit about that volatility muting.
You've talked a little bit about hedging through that uh lens international, but I know that technology is also still a part of the strategy here because I guess on the one hand, you want to minimize risk, but on the other hand, you still want to maximize returns. So is is that is that the the the sort of thinking behind still turning to technology, Julie? Absolutely.
And I was about to get to that that while for some investors the volatility has been a little bit alarming and they have asked us about sort of looking to reduce volatility whether that be through minimum volatility strategies or option overlays. Other investors are actually using this as an opportunity to add back to risk.
And this is where we're telling them what we think is the most exciting opportunity here is to continue to add to those mega trends that we think will be with us for quarters and years. And AI is obviously top of mind and obviously big week with earnings and learning more about the capex plans of some of these large AI hyperscalers. But recognizing that this theme is going to stay with us for a long time and now we're getting a chance to get back into these themes um at somewhat of a sort of discounted level to where we were at the peak. Gary, final question. You know, as
investors look for opportunities right now overseas, there's been plenty of strategists who've come on this show and banging the table for Europe. Um you also point out though Latin America. Why Latin America? Why emphasize there? Absolutely. And we do think that there are pockets of Europe that absolutely make sense and European financials and we're talking about European value a little bit that we think completely make sense and you know going active with international but the other often overlooked area to your point is LATAM
which isn't a region that many investors have specific allocations to and in this rewiring of sort of uh you know what's happening right now with geopolitical fragmentations and some of the rewiring of supply chains that's going to happen of course as a result of tariffs. We think that their pockets of Latin America and Brazil and Mexico come to mind which we think might be the beneficiaries and could also benefit from having some cheaper valuations compared to the US and parts of the European market. So, you know, think
about some of the exposures especially as I said in Mexico and Brazil as another way of thinking about diversification in your portfolio. Gardi, good to see you. Thanks so much for joining us. Thank you for having me. We're just getting started here on Market Domination. Coming up, Amazon denying reports that it will display the impact of tariffs next to the price of products on its e-commerce site.
That, by the way, had drawn the attention of the Trump administration today. More on that and a look ahead to Amazon's earnings report when market domination returns. [Music] The White House calling out Amazon this morning on reports that the company is going to post the price increases from tariffs on its products.
This is a hostile and political act by Amazon. So, this is another reason why Americans should buy American. It's another reason why we are onshoring critical supply chains here at home to shore up our own critical supply chain uh and boost our own manufacturing. Amazon then quickly denying the report, saying in a statement that it was never consideration for the main Amazon site.
For more, we're bringing in now Yahoo Finance's tech editor, the one and only Dan Hely. Yes, this is an interesting report, right? We already have Trump coming out uh saying that uh he spoke to Jeff Bezos this morning. Uh let's see, he said uh Jeff Bezos is very nice, terrific. He solved the problem very quickly. He did the right thing.
Good guy. Um that's uh that's from Trump. Uh Amazon obviously saying that this was not something they wanted to do on the the regular site. This uh uh we had uh CNN White House reporter uh Alana uh Trienne, I hope I said that right. Uh basically saying that Trump had called Bezos after learning about uh this idea that they may put the tariff pricing on the e-commerce site.
Again, something that Amazon said they they never proposed. But you know, uh this kind of just speaks to the the precarious situation that companies are in now. have to navigate uh dealing with Trump himself, but also provide information to consumers as to what exactly they're paying. And look, you know, not for nothing, but I watch a lot of Mets games, so I watch a lot of bar rescue.
All right, let's just throw it out there for John Taffer. Uh I constantly hear uh auto commercials with no tariff pricing, right? So, you know, I mean, that's not exactly new that you're hearing stuff like this. And frankly, as a consumer myself, I want to know what I'm paying for.
If I'm paying taxes, tell me that I'm paying taxes. If I have to pay for tariffs, then tell me what I'm paying for in tariffs. I don't want to just know, you know, okay, well, the price just went up. I don't know why exactly, you know. So, I don't really see how this is a a negative for consumers. It'll give them a heads up. And, you know, if the idea is to buy American, well, then they'll see the difference in pricing between what's tariffed uh from overseas and what's not.
Amazon said they're not actually doing it or they were considering doing it on one part of their business. Yeah, it was supposed to be for uh Amazon Hall. It's basically uh their their super lowcost uh sales site. So, not on the the regular side, but you know, I think for for from a consumer practical perspective, it would have made sense to move forward with something like that.
At least, you know, as far as I know what I'm spending on, right? And she and Timu, for example, are doing it ahead of the dimminimous tax uh exemption going away. So, um, switching gears, but staying in tech. Um, let's talk about Meta because it is working on a new AI app. Yes. What do we know about is it is it actually out yet? And what does it entail? The site's out.
Uh, we had taken a screenshot of it earlier and it doesn't look like it's it was working at the time. It looked uh there was still uh some lipsum uh stuff in there. Uh, not really giving you uh exactly what what you would want out of the the the site yet, but uh it's going to be Meta's AI app.
And essentially they're they're almost decoupling it from the overall Instagram, Facebook, uh WhatsApp apps. Uh not that it won't still be there, but this is just a secondary app. So say you want to use it as a you know maybe like perplexity, excuse me, or OpenAI alternative, you have that now instead of having to open Instagram and then get lost in you know a line of you know different uh video or photo feeds.
You can actually get done what you want to get done. And I think, you know, it would it to me it makes more sense because when when Meta talks about, okay, we have X number of people using Meta AI, are they really using Meta AI or are they just searching for something on Instagram or, you know, uh, right? They're not choosing Meta AI, right? It's just there, right? So, like what where's that, you know, what is that number? And I think that it would be a better accounting of who's actually using Meta AI by going and counting the app itself. So obviously that you know
doesn't make it look as cool because meta AI getting the big numbers when you start you know you're trying to look for for instance John Taffer and his I swear to God I've just been watching a lot of our rescue. I guess I I'm I got some googling to do. It's okay. You don't have to tell me right now.
But it's it's uh it's it's interesting and I I think this is you know obviously if you've been looking at again I've been watching a lot of TV. If you watch any of the ads, it's just, you know, meta uh people talking meta through the the meta uh Rayban glasses or through their phone, asking about different, you know, things that you would ask perhaps Google or or OpenAI about.
So, it's clear that that's the direction that they want to go with this. And I think having it on its own app will make people want to use that in that way more. I think Julie was just searching for Bar Rescue, by the way. It was. I Okay, all caught up. Okay. Thanks, Dan. No problem. Appreciate it. Well, Amazon reporting first quarter earnings after the markets close on Thursday.
But our next guest says there will be less focus on the first quarter results and more on the longer term outlook given those headwinds from tariffs. Remember, we're bringing in Arun Sundurum, senior equity research analyst at CFR research. Arun, it's good to see you. Before we get to the big earnings picture, I do want to ask you about some of those headlines today.
the reporting that we were going to see the sort of tariff breakdown in some of uh Amazon's pricing, then Amazon saying no, we're not necessarily going to do that, but the White House pushing back. I mean, what do you think is sort of the right way for Amazon and some other companies to to sort of approach this? Yeah. Yeah.
Certainly an interesting day for Amazon. I think I think in my in my view, I think the whole thing kind of got blown out of proportion um because of that that unconfirmed report that came out. Then the White House came out with their statement and Amazon had to quickly respond back to it. Um, you know, I I don't think Amazon was ever considering breaking out tariff charges on their main e-commerce website.
Um, you know, they did say they did say that too and they they said that these tariff search charges were mainly for Amazon Hall, which is essentially their Teimu Sheen copycat website. But, um, yeah, I I don't think big box retailers in general will will break out tariff search charges.
One is because it's just a very complex calculation and it could be really messy. Um uh I think it's probably gonna have more there probably more questions than answers if they did break out tariffs or charges like why is this product uh have a higher tax versus this one. Um you know right now retailers are also trying to figure out who's going to you know absorb some of these tariff costs.
You know some of it is going to no doubt be passed on to the consumer but some of it's going to be absorbed by retailers. Some of it's going to be absorbed by suppliers. So how is that going to be calculated into the tariff search charge calculation? So, you know, I think it's I think it wouldn't be too messy.
It would probably hurt sales to be honest if they did break it out, too. So, um I don't think you'll see big box retailers um you know, take that route. So, I'm just curious because it is, you know, it is the big question for Amazon or certainly a big question. You know, h how exactly they're going to navigate this China tariff exposure.
I I did see the team over at Roth, they're telling their clients more than 30% of products sold on Amazon could be coming from China. And so I'm I'm just curious what will be Amazon's game plan and what is going to be Amazon's strategy to navigate that? Yeah. Yeah. I mean no doubt they have a significant portion of Chinese sellers, Chinese third party sellers.
They don't they never disclose it um the exact percentage but it is known it is expected to be a sizable portion. Um the good thing is that I think you know ever since the first trade war back in 2018 2019 uh they did move significant portion of their of their sourcing or supplier base out of China into other other Asian markets like you know Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand, India places places like that.
Uh I think that's going to be beneficial. two um you know over the last 5 years or so Amazon's also um uh diversified their business in terms of um not just selling discretionary bigger ticket items but also more you know daily use consumables you know things like deodorant toothpaste paper towels things like that those products typically face less tariff risk as well so that's going to help them I think as well uh and third you know Amazon has a very large obviously a very large business a very a lot of many different suppliers they
also 60% of their e-commerce business is also third party sellers and only 40% is their own um first party sales. So in in theory, you know, that 60% which which is the third party business, they Amazon generates a fee uh based off of fulfillment services and things like that.
So in theory, higher prices from third party sales could generate higher uh fee revenue for Amazon. So you know, it's I think there's a lot of, you know, pros and cons you have to weigh out before you determine whether you know tariffs are going to be fully bad or fully good. So it's a little bit it's a little bit complicated, I think, is the best way to say it. Yeah.
I mean I guess unless from the third party seller front unless people buy less stuff because it's more expensive. I mean and that goes for AWS as well. I want to ask about the implications there because you know if Amazon's clients if it's big enterprise clients are feeling the pinch from tariffs are they then going to not spend as much on AWS? Is that portion of their spending you know is that vulnerable in this case? Yeah.
So yeah, the way we kind of framed it is that you tariffs probably have a a bigger risk to Amazon's e-commerce business, but a broader macro slowdown because of tariffs have could have a negative implic imp implications to Amazon's AWS business as well as its advertising business. Um, so that's something that we're going to, you know, we'll we'll likely look to hear on the on the earnings call in a few days.
But yeah, we'll have to see. And I think right now the the commentary that we've been hearing from from Andy Jasse and even Amazon's shareholder letter that they released a few weeks ago sounded pretty upbeat in AWS. So I think expectations are high for AWS this year. Uh Amazon's also investing they're expected to invest over hundred billion dollars in capex this year.
Most of that is going to be in in AWS and and AI investments. Um so we are pretty upbeat for AWS. But because of that capex capex investments, um there's a chance that AWS margins this year could be softer than than the previous year. And I don't know if that's fully baked into to into the consensus estimates right now. So that could be, you know, an area where we could see downside risk is that AWS margin line.
Finally, what about the advertising business? Do you think uh think Amazon's able to gain advertising share? Yeah, I mean because I mean if during a during an economic slowdown, you know, you you want to allocate more of your advertising dollars to where people buy, you know, goods. And right now there's I think only three retailers gain g getting the most amount of market share.
It's it's Amazon, it's Walmart, and it's Costco. And so if you're an advertiser, you probably want to be advertising in one of those uh three three companies. Uh but at the same time is that many of Amazon's advertisers are thirdparty sellers. So if a lot of these Chinese third-party sellers are feeling uh the brunt of tariffs uh then they could be advertising less and that could negatively impact Amazon's advertising business.
But at the same time also is that Amazon's also um uh just getting into Prime Video ads. They they launched Prime Video ads last year. They're ramping it up this year. Uh and that's a you know increment that can be an incremental uh uh revenue stream for for Amazon. So again there's like a there's there's there's pluses and minuses in their in their ad business as well.
And advertising is probably the most profitable business at Amazon, even more profitable than AWS. Um, and and over the last few years, that's been the fastest growing business for Amazon is is advertising. Um, so hopefully that continues to grow at a at a faster pace because that would only help overall overall margins at Amazon.
Arun, as you say, it's complicated, a lot of moving parts to watch. Thank you so much for helping set us up for it. Thank you. [Music] Now, time for some of today's trending tickers. Checking in on shares of Hims and Hers Health, Honeywell, and the Sherwin Williams company. Um, let's start with Hims and Hers.
Soaring today after Novu Nordisk announced a partnership with Hims and other teleaalth platforms to offer patients access to the blockbuster weight loss drug, Wgoi, this is really interesting. Hims and Hers has been really volatile because remember when the government declared a shortage of these drugs, Hims and Hers and the other privately held tele health platforms like Grow were be were able to sell compounded versions of those drugs and were able to um gain some steam.
Then the government said no, there's not a shortage anymore and it was declared they probably couldn't sell this stuff anymore and now this comes in and sort of replaces that. Yeah. Novo exec telling Bloomberg it looks like in an interview we have an opportunity to really meaningfully meet patients where they are.
They say they go on to say that Novo and its partners share a joint view of making real WGO more accessible and affordable. And this all coming by the way as Lily working with teleahalth names to distribute zbound as well. Right. Y exactly. All right. Scott shares Honeywell. They're higher today after the company topped earnings expectations the first quarter lifted its fullear outlook.
So um the fullear guidance for earnings per share. So now looking for between 1020 and 1050 it looks like. Uh they did suggest some caution too though. CEO saying though we we have not seen it in our results. We recognize we face an uncertain global demand environment for the remainder of 2025.
Guidance they say does incorporate net expected impact of current tariffs mitigation actions and global demand uncertainty. Yeah. Like like so many companies Honeywell coming out and saying what it's trying to do to deal with the tariffs. Right. Um, and you know that among those things is sort of moving around supply chain, cutting costs, etc.
Um, Andrew Kaplowitz over at city, his commentary on this stuck out to me. He said, you know, this outlook for 2025 coming despite tariff headwinds and macro uncertainty. He says, we think highlight good visibility and resilience within Honeywell's portfolio. Remember, taking a step back, Honeywell's in the process of dividing itself into three here.
automation, aerospace, and advanced materials are going to be the three parts of that that it's not aiming for that until the second half of next year, but nonetheless something to just keep an eye on. And Elliot taking that stake last year urged the breakup. Exactly. All right. Finally, the Sherwin Williams company, it's getting a boost today after the maker paints and other industrial products exceeded profit estimates and issued stronger than expected guidance for the full year.
So, they report they beat expectations of the first quarter. Their guidance for the full year 2025 looks like remains unchanged. Consolidated net sales expected to be up a low singledigit percentage compared to full year 2024. Julie, yeah, here too, I saw um one analyst comment, Greg Melich over at Everquorei, uh saying the impact from tariffs is limited because most of Sherwin Williams revenues are in the US and it doesn't source raw materials from outside where it's actually making the paint. So, he said they're more immune.
You know what I realized today? I this snuck by me. Sherwin Williams is in the Dow now. Did you know that? I did not know. I didn't know either until we were looking at the heat map earlier and there was Sherwin Williams. It it came in at the same time as Invidia. I didn't even Every day you learn something.
Yeah, it's really true. Coming up, another big day of earnings means another round of companies cutting fullyear guidance. We'll get you up to speed with the latest on the other side. Stick around. Much more market domination still to come. We continue to be on tariff watch of course this earning season.
So let's round up some of the latest that we're seeing and the commentary that we're getting. Multiple companies cutting fullear guidance including Pepsi, Proctor and Gamble and FedEx. And now Craft Hind becoming one of the latest companies lowering its fullear outlook in light of a weakening consumer and tariff costs.
The company projecting sales will decline one and a half to three and a half%. and the CEO saying that he's quote acutely aware of the building pressures across food. Let's get to JetBlue giving an update on guidance today as well. The company following its fellow airlines and pulling fullear guidance due to macroeconomic uncertainty.
The JetBlue president saying quote, "We expect softened demand for off- peak travel to continue into the second quarter where the booking curve is more exposed to macro uncertainty and deteriorating consumer confidence." And shifting gears to autos, General Motors also reported earnings this morning. It also delayed its earnings call until Thursday.
The company citing recent reports regarding updates to trade policy as the reason for the delay. And of course, we told you at the top of the show, we got some color around what those updates were. Well, as several companies warn of the impacts from macroeconomic uncertainties and trade policy fog, we're dissecting what this all means for consensus earnings with Raymond James, chief investment officer, Larry Adam, who's here with us in the studio, which is lovely to see you in person.
So, so Larry, um, earnings estimates have not come down that much. Even though, and to be fair, these companies, some of them are cutting, but many of them are just saying we can't give a forecast. Are those numbers going to have to come down? And by how much? I think they're going to have to come back. I think we're finally going to start to see the economic impact from these tariffs.
And our forecast is that the current consensus is at 264. We think those earnings go down to around 250 to 255 by the end of this year. And that's for the S&P 500 per share. Yes. How much confidence, Larry, do you have in that number? Because some strategies have said, "Listen, I I can give you a number, but I don't have a ton of confidence in the E right now.
" I mean, I have a lot of confidence because we've done a lot of work on this. We do it by sector. Yeah. Right. Which is very important. And then we actually do it by company because we look at how much of that exposure, how much of their costs are coming from the US versus overseas. How much of their sales are in the US versus overseas.
So, we try and put as much of a fine point as we can on that. But, it is a very big challenge out there. Well, and that said, you're looking at all of that exposure at a moment in time, right? So, if tariffs on China are not are no longer 145% for example, if other tariffs change, then how much would that I mean would that change commensurately or are you sort of thinking it's not going to be solved? So, we actually have an estimate and we think if you look at it right now, the current effective trade weighted tariff is about 22 and a.5%. We ultimately
think that that comes down to 15% by the end of this year, which by the way is significant because it actually started at two and a half% this year. But I think there's two things that are going to hamper earnings. Number one, it is the cost pressure. So margins are going to come in which will hurt earnings.
But then you also have the actual reduction in economic growth. So that's what hurts some sectors more so than others. And you know, look, we look at all 11 sectors. They're not all equal, right? Financials are not going to be hit as much because of tariffs. They're going to be hit more because of the economic slowdown.
Consumer discretionary that's going to be hit by both factors. Number one, the cost going higher and then number two, the slowdown in the economy. Larry, how would you characterize valuation broadly for the market right now? Would you say it's a bit stretched? Do you tell clients, well, after the draw down, we're we're maybe a bit fairly valued.
How do you describe it? So, I would say fairly valued because if you look at our target for the end of this year for the S&P 500, we're at 5,800. Now again, that's still eight months from now, but I would tell you we're a little bit more cautious here in the near term because I do think you're going to see those earnings move lower.
I do think that you could see the potential for what I call transitory uh inflation. And I mean transitory, but the fact that we see an uptick, I think that's going to unnerve the markets a bit. So I think you could see a sell-off because of that. And you could see a small modest uptick in uh interest rates because there is going to be a lot of debt that's going to have to be issued and that could weigh on the markets as well.
So 5,800 is where we ultimately see the market going by the end of this year. Um so you talked about some of the sectors and your sector by sector work here. Some of them getting the double whammy, some just getting one. Are there any groups that are getting none or getting less? No, all 11 sectors have had a downward anywhere from 3% to more than 10% reduction from where we had them at the beginning of the year.
So it's broad-based. Where Larry is the Fed in all this? I mean Jay Powella has signaled listen monetary policy is on hold. What does that mean for the market? So if we narrowly avert a recession and right now it's a toss up 50% chance we could have a recession. But one of the reasons why we think we could narrowly avert a recession is if the Fed does start to cut rates.
We think they cut rates three times this year starting as early as June or July. And the reason I think they'll be able to actually cut rates is because they will have that laser focus on the economy. I think inflation is going to be transitory. And I know a lot of people don't like to use that transitory word anymore, but this is totally different than 2022, right? I mean, you had an economy that was soaring coming out of the pandemic. This one's slowing.
You had energy prices at $100 per barrel. Now we're at 60. And back then, coming out of the pandemic, you had excess savings, so people were willing to pay almost anything to go on vacation, buy a car. Today, totally different consumer out there, very frugal, pushing back on price increases. So, I think that inflation will be transitory and it will come back down because companies won't be able to raise prices to make up for all of it.
Um, finally, Magman. Yes, that's your your version of your flavor of Mag 7. Um, what does that mean and why should people maybe be looking at that area right now? So, MagMan is the largest uh mega cap tech stocks minus Tesla because we think that's more of a car company, but that is one of my favorite areas in the market.
Number one, I think there's a big disconnect out there when it comes to what's happened in their performance. If you look at MagMAN, they're down about 13% year-to date. Their earnings revisions have actually gone higher so far this year by about 0.2%. The rest of the market's down 3%. Their earnings have been revised down 4%.
So, big difference there. And then when I look at valuations, believe it or not, those large cap tech stocks are at the cheapest valuations versus the S&P since 2017. That's a long time. I think that's an opportunity. And when I look at what they're doing with their cash, they're increasing their buybacks, it's up 27%.
I think that I know you had the previous uh speaker on. I think that when you look at the spending, the capex, I still think it's going to be relatively strong between those four hyperscalers he's talking about, you're talking about over $300 billion this year. I think that's pretty robust spending.
So I think that's going to continue. And the last thing I'd say is that as opposed to where it was a year ago where everybody loved big cap tech, now it's got the largest underweight in institutional portfolios since 2022. So from a contrarian perspective, I think you could see those those stocks do well over the coming, you know, quarters and you got a catchy uh acronym.
So that's that's what you need, Larry. All right, thanks for coming in. Good to see you. Appreciate it. Coming up, we're taking a look at the best ways to be positioned within the software sector in today's investor playbook. Stick around. and much more market domination still to [Music] come.
Earning season is kicking into high gear with several software stocks gearing up to report earnings in the coming weeks. The latest quarterly results are expected to shed light on momentum for the software space as tariff impacts and demand uncertainties hanging overhead. For more insight on future momentum, let's get to McQuary, head of US technology research, Steve Kanig. Steve, it is great to see you.
Um, maybe to start higher higher level, Steve, you know, I think when a lot of investors think about the software sector, they think, okay, this is a more, you know, relatively tariff resistant sector, Steve, but there are still risks. Walk us through what those are. Hi Josh, thanks for having me on. you know the uh software companies in the US um you know most of the midcap and large cap companies have significant exposure to large enterprises that um can make some pretty big purchase decisions and when you have policy
uncertainty like we've had those decisions can get deferred they can get pushed out you know companies are reluctant to make big commitments uh you know in the um you know as far as smaller customers are concerned um they tend to be their their buying habits you know it's smaller number of software seats etc they tend to be more linear with the economy so if the economy uh degrades and we start to see you know recession or a slowdown uh the purchasing by the smaller companies also gets affected so so those are basically
the macro risks um and you're probably going to want to ask me more about it but I don't think we're going to see those risks come home to roost in a big way in Q1. I think there's a lot of momentum there and I think mo most of the major software names in the US have left pretty ample room in their guidance to either raise their guide or not not cut their guide.
Um so that that's kind of the big picture outlook we have here and valuations have certainly come in quite a bit and and are looking pretty attractive on a lot of a lot of names. So that's interesting, Steve. So even with that sort of caution, that unknown in terms of of the outlook, you think there's a good amount of negativity that's already priced into most of these.
I think that it's true, Julie. Um but I also think there's a there's a certain um buying dynamic that you know even a lot of investors may not fully appreciate even institutional investors which is um software companies have a lot of mechanisms to maintain their momentum in the short term e even in the face of deteriorating conditions.
That's that's always been true even in the 20 years that I've been on the sales side covering software. Um, you know, a lot of these sales cycles are very long and the the sales get, you know, pretty close to being concluded and the projects are green lit and they they may actually the decision may have been made in calendar Q4, but the software um gets turned on, you know, the cloud software gets turned on in Q1 and and bookings registers in Q1 and that revenue starts flowing and sometimes it can start flowing, you know, well after the
decisions are So, so that means there's there's kind of a lag time, if you will, uh, in a lot of this, how this decision-m affects revenue. Uh, and I and I think what we already saw from Service Now and SAP were some pretty good Q1 reports, um, that uh, that set the tone for the space.
And I think a lot of other software companies are going to be hesitant to start, you know, sounding economic alarms, you know, and and a lot of them have room to um if not to raise their guidance to not cut their guidance. So I think Q1 will be fine. The question mark's going to be more Q2, Q3. Having said that, so some some questions ahead, Steve, I know there are names in your coverage universe you like. I want to get to some of those.
Why in your you know, you're telling your clients where the opportunities are. Autodesk you say that's an opportunity. How come? Yeah. Well, a couple things going on there. Um, number one, they just settled with the activist investor who was uh fighting with them. Starboard value. Starboard is going to um has has um suggested and Autodesk has accepted two independent directors on its board.
Autodesk has already been focused more so than we've seen in past years on improving their margins. And we think there's significant room to make the business more efficient to continue to improve margins. And I I think you know the uh the Autodesk management will will continue to pursue margin growth as they have been uh but but even perhaps more aggressively and I think one thing that enables them to do so is the fact that this year they are transitioning to a new transaction model where they're transacting directly with customers.
resellers are still there to provide service but Autodesk is going to gain much more visibility into the end buyers. These are um these are construction firms, architects, uh uh design firms that uh now Autodesk will have that visibility that enables them to know the customer better to cross-ell and to sell more efficiently.
So I think that's important for Autodesk. I think the other thing that's going on is they're being successful pushing into providing software for downstream construction activities which is largely a green field market. Uh and Autodesk is one of the one of the pioneers in this marketplace and that's that's all upside we think going forward in terms of their uh adding to their revenue base.
Steve, I want to get your thoughts on another name that you like which is HubSpot. Those shares about down about 12% or so uh thus far this year and they're coming out with their earnings on May 8th. So, do you think that's going to be a catalyst potentially for the name? Yes, I think I think potentially it can be, Julie. Uh, we like HubSpot.
We're outperform rated on HubSpot as well as Autodesk. Um, and with HubSpot, you know, there's a there's a couple reasons we like this stock. One is uh it all comes down to fundamentals, but one is that they're they're growing um you know probably this year in the high teens and we think that's a very sustainable growth rate as they um broaden their their footprint in the various pillars of customer relationship management from marketing to service to sales.
Uh and so that's that kind of growth opportunity presents the the ability to sustain this this uh high teams revenue growth. I also think there's lots of room for margin expansion as this company grows and matures and and benefits from operating leverage. Lastly, we think this year uh their fiscal 25 which ends in December uh that there's uh ample opportunity for revenue outperformance relative to the guidance that's been put out there.
when we look at the numbers that um we think even in a in an environment as long as that we don't you know go into you know some kind of very bad recession I I think there's plenty of room for revenue upside this year Steve appreciate your time and those picks thank you thank you Josh thank you Julio great to be here and while wrapping up today's market domination don't go anywhere we've got you covered with all the action following the closing bell including the latest earnings results from Starbucks Visa Snap and many more stay tuned for Market domination over
time.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp