Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
Bring in show music, please. Hi, I'm CNBC producer Katie Kramer. Today on Squawk Pod, new Trump tax cuts coming. House Ways and Means Chair Jason Smith. We're going to provide that certainty to the markets, the certainty the small businesses, the certainty to the families that they're going to have a very aggressive progrowth tax bill and a U-turn in the auto sector.
GM and the rest of the car industry are facing crippling tariffs. Former Ford CEO Mark Fields joins us. The automaker is going to look very closely on moving very fast to automate as much of the processes as possible. But the bottom line is yes, it will add jobs back here in the US. Plus, Canada votes the division of labor between the DOJ and the FTC and antitrust issues.
And Nike's in hot water with a shareholder over a billboard. Not a good ad anyway. Whoever wrote this copy was so ignorant. It's Tuesday, April 29th. Squawk Pod begins right now. Stand back by in 3 2 1 c. Good morning everybody. Welcome to Squawkbox right here on CNBC. We're live from the NASDAQ market site in Times Square.
I'm Becky Quick along with Joe Kernan and Andrew Ross Sorcin. Here we go on a Tuesday. Excuse me. Water went down. I caught you off guard. I side of my mouth. Not the side of my mouth. Down my, you know, the wrong pipe. I've heard you have a drinking problem. A water drinking problem. No, I mean drinking anything. Drinking anything.
Uh the White House is saying that the Trump administration is going to be moving now to reduce the impact of auto tariffs by lightening some levies that were placed on foreign parts in US manufactured cars and by preventing tariffs on foreignade cars from stacking on top of one another. Uh so the reductions expected to take place today when the president will travel to the heart of auto country in Michigan for a rally marking his first 100 days back in office.
CEOs of Ford and GM both praising the plan tariff changes. And so it's going to be interesting to see him in in in Michigan where all of this has had I don't know probably the biggest impact so far in terms of just how much anxiety it's created. Yeah. And it's uh it's a mixed bag. It's mixed back because some of the autos foreign automakers like so many of these things journal's got a pretty good piece u first one summary of the first 100 days uh basically starts with second terms are usually totally unsuccessful and this one in their view is starting
out um in that direction it'd be tough to to to change a lot they say a couple things are good seems like energy production is up quite a bit. Um, and the border, but then some of the negatives, uh, biggest change since Brettton Woods with Nixon, which brought in wage and price controls, uh, and Doge, uh, disappointing.
Didn't really change the trajectory of federal spending uh, like like it was promised. But interesting piece of journal's never been um, totally behind a lot. And they're anti on the editorial page. Yes. top top uh yeah but it's it's you know tomorrow's 100 days that's if you can't get Rupert's businessfriendly paper on your side for things who's going to be you're not getting it from the Washington Post or New York Time tell you that much top Republicans are working to chart a path forward on budget reconciliation on that package to pass President Trump's
big beautiful bill of his top priorities uh Treasury Secretary Scott Bessant held a meeting yesterday afternoon uh at the capital with other members of the so-called big six. That group includes House Speaker um Mike Johnson, Senate Majority Leader John Thun, the Senate Finance Chair, House Ways and Means Chair, and the National Economic Council Director Besson said he's hoping a reconciliation bill can be done uh by July 4th.
But key in the timetable will be the date on which the government hits its borrowing limit. Some people are talking about October or November for this bill being more likely. Um then you got elections and everything else. The Treasury Secretary said he doesn't know yet uh that exact date, but should have a better idea by next week.
Separately, the House Judiciary Committee has proposed transferring the FTC's antirust work to the Department of Justice as part of a budget reconciliation package. Those two agencies have shared federal antitrust jurisdiction for more than a hundred years. The idea has been proposed before and it's unclear whether the plan will make it through the reconciliation process, but I' I've always wondered why you had the FTC and the DOJ working separately.
Some of the arguments that have been pushed back have said that it would weaken the nation's antirust reviews, but I would think from the perspective of business, it would probably be good to have one organization, one place that you go to find out if you get the thumbs up, thumbs down. I always thought it was there was some argument talking about competition.
competition inside government to see who can be the tougher regulator. Well, that No, but there was always this idea that if you had different agencies that could compete with each other a little bit, maybe some would be better than others. Yeah. It just feels like it's it's probably tough to get the rules of the road when you're not. That's always always been the case.
The prime minister who will make Canada strong and Canada. Who's ready? Who's ready? Who's ready to stand up for Canada with me? Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney's Liberal Party winning Canada's federal election yesterday. The Liberals are projected to win more seats in Parliament than Canada's Conservatives, but they're short of an outright majority of seats.
Many believe the Liberals would lose yesterday's election, but vocal attacks from President Trump in recent months drove a surge in Canadian nationalism ahead of that vote. uh as late as yesterday morning uh Trump posting on Truth Social that Canada should become America's 51st state. So that continues to hang over a lot of the folks in Canada.
No, no, because I've talked to a bunch of them and there this is something that you know Well, he would have beat Trudeau and once Trudeau resigned all bets are off. Yeah, but there is a Canadian nationalism that was fueled. There is there is and they think might be a better way. I think yeah it's it has but uh I think you can see the on the poly market yeah when it's switched the Trump administration announcing investigations into Harvard University and the school's law review the probe comes from the departments of education
and health and human services which said that they were uh in response to potential violations of the title six of the civil rights act of 1964 that bars recipients of federal funds from engaging in race-based discrimination. Harvard says the school's committed to ensuring programs uh that it oversees comply with all applicable laws.
The developments came just hours after a federal judge agreed to expedite uh Harvard's lawsuit against the Trump administration, which has frozen more than $2 billion in federal funding uh for the school. Meanwhile, this is a fascinating story. billionaire investor Bill Aman saying that he has now spoken to Nike CEO Elliot Hill after the company received blowback for a billboard along the route of last Sunday's London Marathon.
The advertisement featured the phrase never again which is used by many as a reminder to heed the lessons of the Holocaust. Aman's persing square is one of Nike's biggest shareholders. In a post on X late last night, Aman said that Nike co had apologized for the ad. Aman said Nike is in the midst of a turnaround which makes mistakes more likely to occur with talent turning over etc.
Elliot is the right choice to fix the company and he clearly has a lot of work to do. I'm confident he will get it done. In a statement to CNBC, Nike said it did not mean any harm with that ad and apologized for uh any that it caused. It said that the copy used in the billboard campaign was based on common phrases used by runners. So that red background and everything else sort of not a good ad anyway just irrespective of any of it.
But they admitted it. Yeah, they admitted it. Yeah, but they didn't admit that they tried it because the United Colors of Benitin, do you remember? They tried the clickbait idea. A lot of places Oh, you think that was clickbait that was I just think that it was to get attention. Why you didn't have any idea that that that I don't know. I I don't know.
I wasn't there when they planned it, but just hard to believe. I don't believe No, no. I genu I genuinely believe everybody in the world knows what never again means. I believe that whoever wrote this copy was so ignorant. I I that they did not know what was really going on. And the truth is that I imagine and I have heard marathoners say after they finish a marathon like I'm never doing this again for the rest of my life.
Like once and done. I I think it was a complete mistake and I'm assuming that the in sort of a runner's world and maybe they're not focused on the geopolitical issues. I don't know what their religious background. I don't know anything. Such a narrow view. We are very focused and as a result it matters. See, my slogan would be never for the mar for for the marathon. True.
Because a body's not supposed to do that. Well, that's a whole separate topic. But I I I do think it was an accident. They screwed up. They admitted it. Black letter, red background. It just looked very austere. And if you put it in context with the rest of the Maybe, look, maybe I'm not being cynical enough. I don't know. I hope not.
That would be I I don't know. Maybe I'm too cynical. So, I know you're going to you're going to do the tease. This is it. We're early today. Andrew, it's good. I just But my question, your drinking problem is does it is it is it is it rare? Is it rare that that happens to you? Is it not? Have you noticed it happening more? I'm asking you for an age thing.
That's what I'm talking about because where the water goes down the wrong Yeah. I just looked it up and I have I definitely noticed. I mean, I have definitely noticed and it's very disconcerting because you're sitting there minding your own business and you've been doing this the right way your entire, you know, it's pretty easy to drink and and it just goes down the wrong way and it's like, you know, you just you have to be careful.
You can't talk and drink breaks loose. And I looked it up and it it happens more and more. But you're four, you you're not 50. Yes. And over 50 it starts over 50 it starts and paristalsis. I didn't have that. I felt it was just I was drinking trying to drink fast before my before I was up on the screen.
With you, it's not related to that. I'm just telling you, and it doesn't happen to everyone, but there it just it's a shocker and it just seems to happen more. I've got a lot of wisdom to impart to you as you since we're different ages, but as you go into the not the twilight, but the twilight will be next. Coming up on SquawkPod, House Ways and Means Chairman Jason Smith is the most influential lawmaker when it comes to tax policy.
It all happens in his committee. He says Trump's new tax plan is all about revenue, but the markets are more concerned about another metric. Will it expand the deficit? The House budget version is much different than the Senate budget version. And in fact, we are going to expand the growth in the economy.
What the GOP wants in the next big beautiful bill, plus an announcement from Amazon. All that is right after this break. Welcome back to Squawk Pod up and Q. You're watching Squatbox right here on CNBC. I'm Andrew Oscin along with Joe Kernan and Becky Quick. We got a lot going on this morning. Amazon is launching its first batch of internet satellites into space.
A United Launch Alliance rocket carrying 27 of these Kyper uh satellites lifted off from Cape Canaveral last night. Plans call for the satellites to separate from the rocket about 280 mi above the Earth's surface at which point Amazon will try to confirm that they can move around independently and communicate uh with the ground.
Amazon aims for Kyper to compete with Elon Musk Starlink and go into commercial operation uh later this year. Starling currently dominates the space-based internet industry. Has about 8,000 satellites in orbit. How did you know Kyper? How did you do you knew how to say that before? Do you want to know about Kyper or or is it waste time for you? Do you think it's it's good to know? I we you know we had the head of Kyper on the broadcast.
Do you know what why it's called Kyper? I don't know why it's called Kyper. Okay. Do you want to I I'm not going to waste your time. Okay. The Kyper belt was named by an astronomer Gerard Kyper. It's past the last planet. Some people say eight Neptune and it's a belt of icy bodies that goes around. One of his men, one of his students that that's famous that Gerard Kyper mentored was Carl Sean.
So he was a Dutch American astronomer. Carl Sean taught at Cornell. He's Carl Sean. It brings it all back brings it all back home. Now, see, I think that's interesting info, but I don't you know, there's times where you look at me and I know you did, but I'm going to ask him from now on.
I'm going to I'm going to ask you before I waste time. I'm much more focused on the idea though that if this works, there's going to be competition to the money side of thing. You're looking at the money side of thing. This guy revolutionized the way we look at the solar system and made it much more rigorous. And so, this is how we make might complement each other, but we're we're we're different.
But I'm going to ask you from now, tomorrow is 100 days uh into President Trump's second term in office as top negotiators met at the capital yesterday to discuss what's next for the Republicans mega bill uh and tax cuts. There are the uh what did it used to be? A group of se what were those the the gang of the gang of six or the magnificent seven.
Magnificent six and we've got one ways and means committee chairman, maybe the best of of all of them, Jason Smith, who was part of that meeting. Uh chairman, it's good to see you. It's good to see you as always. I I want you to tell me everything you know because everything that I want to ask you, I don't think we know anything.
We don't know what's in it. We don't know when it's going to be uh doable. We don't know when the writeups are, when the final votes are. Is there anything you can tell us definitively right now or at least give handicap what what's happening? What's in it and and when it's going to be? Absolutely, Joe. Um I will tell you that when it comes to markup and seen bill texts and legislation moving forward, we're days away, not months.
We're going to provide that certainty to the markets, the certainty the small businesses, the certainty to the families that they're going to have a very aggressive progrowth tax bill that makes permanent um Trump's expiring tax provisions from the 2017 tax cuts and jobs act, but also delivering on his campaign promises when it comes to no tax on tips, no tax on overtime, tax relief for seniors.
These are all things that will be in this bill moving forward. Some of that pay for was going to be letting the the top rate go back up. Now that's off the table. Is there any other way to make it less u you know causing less addition to the deficit? First off, Joe, let me say that um as the tax writer, the Ways and Means chairman, I've been reading a lot of news reports talking about we're going to do X, Y, and Z, whether it's a top bracket, whether it's salt, whether it's um various IRA credits.
And I'm like, wow, that's interesting. And so, there's been a lot of reporting and a lot of hysterical um releases that's been out there that's just simply not accurate. When this bill comes out, Joe, people will see exactly what it is. We're going to have a progrowth tax bill that the markets will love and that the markets will appreciate which the small businesses will love, the small business businesses will appreciate because it's going to be extremely progrowth and it's going to be led by progrowth tax policies. All right. Then the I mean
that would hurt small businesses if you went from 37 back to and the president can you say that that's that's been put to that's not going to happen. President Trump said that's not going to happen. Can you tell me that at least Joe? What I will say is is the tax bill is all about growth and people can extrapate extrapolate what progrowth is.
But we are going to deliver real tax relief for businesses, small businesses, working families and farmers. It is going to be progrowth and the markets will love it. Uh Chairman Smith, we had Libby Cantrol here from PIMCO yesterday and and she said exactly that that this is going to be a very progrowth bill that is put forward. I I asked her what that meant.
Um if it means that there's not going to be pay force for these things if it expands the deficit and she said yes, she believes that's the case. Is that what you see it as as well? There's absolutely going to be provisions that eliminate bad tax policy and replacing it with better tax policy. We did that in 2017.
We're going to do it throughout this process. But will it eliminate a lot of different loopholes? Will it expand the deficit? It will the house budget version is much different than the senate bud budget version and in fact we are going to expand the growth in the economy and that's the key if you look at the revenues coming into our country right now under the current Trump tax cuts that are current policy current law GDP towards um revenue is 17.2% 2%.
If you look at over the last 50 years, it has averaged 17%. We are going to maintain and grow that. My question though is will it expand the deficit? Because you describe progrowth as market friendly. Markets definitely want to see lower taxes. But if it expands the deficit, um that could be something that worries the bond market. Well, let me tell you, the deficit is only expanded by spending.
If you look at over the last 5 years, when you look at spending to GDP, it has averaged 26% of GDP. The 45 years before that, spending to GDP averaged 20%. 20%. We have a spending problem. We do not have a revenue problem. What I'm working on the tax bill is in regards to the revenues that go into our coffers. Since we passed the 2017 successful Trump tax cuts, the corporate revenue receipts, even at a 21% rate, when we went from 35 to 21, has only increased dramatically.
We are going to have progrowth policies. It's going to increase the revenue for our country. I I I understand that and I I I get what you're saying that I agree with your math on that in terms of Well, how will it be scored? It'll be scored that the deficit goes up. Will it extend the deficit? It'll be scored that way, right, Congressman? You can do fuzzy math.
It'll be scored that way that it that the deficit goes up. Let me just say how how congressional scorekeepers are just eliminating the $22 billion that is left from the inflation reduction act for from from for the IRS. Remember, there was $80 billion. There's 22 billion that has not been spent just to eliminate that.
According to those congressional scorekeepers, it would cost us $65 billion. So, the scorekeepers sometimes just don't put apples and oranges together. What I'm saying is is the revenues are going to increase and the growth is going to be exponential. You would hope, but but those are, you know, whether they're right or wrong, when when it is scored, uh probably you you're going to see that go.
What about Medicare and I'm sorry uh Medicaid and and the numbers thrown around. Do do you have a better idea of what it's going to be? It's somewhere around 900 billion. What is that over over 10 years? And then there's arguments about whether it's a cut in the the projected growth of Medicaid, not in the the program itself.
But then there's other say others that say you'd have to cut or do some I don't know right to work or what whatever you'd have to do some things to get um existing payouts would have to be uh cut not just future growth. C can you explain and and how do you get all the Republicans on board with that to some of the ones that might want to cut more or some of the ones in districts that are at risk that might want to cut less? Joe, you hit the big challenge at hand.
It's threading that needle because we have some members on various different issues, whether it's spending cuts, whether it's different um different tax provisions. Um we have to thread that needle. We have to get that balance. There's 11 different committees that is part of this big beautiful bill as the president would say.
And the committee that is completely over Medicaid is energy and commerce. Our committee of course is completely over the revenues, the tax provisions. There's a lot of things that the energy and commerce committee is that that they can look at and that they are looking at. Um, one thing that could be a revenue raiser within Energy and Commerce's space is selling spectrum.
This is one thing that's within theirs that can bring in a lot of money that's not being projected. The president has been crystal clear when he's looking at this bill and spending cuts. He wants to make sure that he protects individuals benefits. He said that you would not cut Medicare, Social Security, Medicaid, but are there efficiencies that can be put in there? Absolutely.
You know, one thing that has been raised numerous times is work requirements, but this is all within the energy and commerce's space. I'm not an expert in it. I'm focused on the the $4.5 trillion tax bill, but it's it's all going to add up in the ultimately end. But just that it was a big ask. Sounds like I'm saying something else. It it was a it was a big ask to be able to extend I mean there's a reason that those uh the 2007 uh teen build wasn't permanent.
Jason, you remember that? It's cuz it it was it was a deficit uh buster and everybody's been worried. How do you extend it? And not only are you extending it, but you're getting all these other uh tax cuts that you're putting into and you're still saying that it's not going to be a deficit buster. And the numbers are are are just troubling for for and you know, I know Dem no one worries about the deficit.
You look at how how Biden spent and we we know we can with the reserve currency of the world. We can get it done. But do you not worry that you know history's going to look back and say there the there go again, both parties just blow out. I mean, you're counting on growth, but the numbers probably don't lie.
So, let's just look at this, Joe. Just in the four years of the Biden presidency, he added more than 10 trillion almost a third. You're opening yourself up to the same uh issue. When will it actually be signed? Uh, Mr. Kim, you think it's it's in the summer or all the way out into the fall? You know, I don't have a crystal ball, but what my goal is, my goal as the chief tax writer is to have it delivered for the American people by July 4th.
I think that that's very doable. And as long as we continue to work handinand glove with the United States Senate, which we have been, we'll be able to accomplish this. The American people are expecting this. We're going to provide imminent growth and tax policies that are transformational. When you look at the 2017 tax cuts, Joe, that you were talking about, there was numerous provisions within that that were were permanent, such as the corporate tax rate was permanent from 35 to 21%.
In this tax bill, there will be numerous things that are made permanent. Not everything, but numerous items will be because we're looking at the debt, the deficits. It's extremely important. The House is more focused on that than the other side of the building. Well, the top the 37 will be permanent. Then on the top right, we're going to have progrowth tax policies that you're going to love.
God, let me ask you one more. See if you can do it, Chairman. Let me let me ask you one more. I I know you can't tell us exactly what the final bill is going to look like. That's still a negotiation. Can you tell us where the toughest sticking points are? Where where do you have the hardest cell? Where is the things that are on the Where are the things that are on the margin? Yeah, without a doubt.
I think there's three areas that are going to be major significant sticking points. It has been throughout the process. It's going to continue to be. One is to make sure that we cut enough spending that puts our our our 15 to 25 members that are very concerned about debt and deficits that this is what they wake up every morning thinking about.
We have to thread the needle there. Make sure that everyone's feeling good. When you look at um salt, salt is another thing that's very big to our members from New York, New Jersey, California. We have to thread that needle. We have individuals within our conference that wants an unlimited salt cap. We have others that want no deduction on salt.
We're threading that needle. Another item is within all the IRA credits. We're looking at every provision of the tax bill. And so there's some members that want to rip out the entire IRA by its roots and there's others that want to use a scalpel approach. So it's a balancing act, threading the needle, but we're going to get this done.
I think you're not listening to President Trump. I mean, I I heard him say it, uh, Chairman, Mr. Chairman, he said he's publicly said there will not be a top income tax um, rate going back up above above the 37. It would be very disruptive. Are you trying to talk him into it or would you He's got members who are want to cut the debut and deficit and that's a big part of it pay for he's in charge.
He's in charge, isn't he? If you write it into it, he might Yeah. Go ahead, Joe. Just let me say you I have a great relationship with the president. I talk to him very he is going he is going to love the tax bill and we're going to follow through with his priorities. That's what we're going to do. 77 million people sent him to Washington.
We have the House and the Senate because President Trump was elected president. We are going to deliver his priorities. I'm his biggest advocate. I'm not trying to talk him out of anything. I'm delivering what he is asking. Yeah. You've got members you have to appease. We just got this list.
So the ones who want to cut the debt deficit, 15 to 20 members, they're going to speak. Get that 26% down. That's how you got to do it. And I don't know how you do that either, but that's what you not that you don't got to do the 17. You got to do the 26. Mr. Chairman, thanks. Next on Squawkpod, General Motors is reassessing its fullear guidance in light of potential tariff policy, but even more changes may be coming down the road.
How automakers are dealing with what the White House wants from their industry with former president and CEO of Ford, Mark Fields. They're putting these, you know, probably big analytic groups in their purchasing areas and deciding looking at their their parts footprint and their suppliers and saying what parts are best for automating so that if we have to bring this these kind of parts back, we can spend the capital expenditures, automate, reduce the amount of labor.
Plus, what to expect from President Trump's Mottown announcement today. Is he backing off on tariffs for Detroit? We'll be right back. You're listening to SquawkPod from CNBC. Here's Joe Kernan. All right, this should be good. GM uh is out with its earnings and we'll see what's happening given all the the the backdrop. Philo joins us now with the numbers.
Hey, Phil. Hey, Joe. This is a beat on the top and the bottom line for General Motors in the first quarter. The company earning 278 a share. The street was expecting 274. revenue coming in slightly better than expected at 44.02 billion about a billion dollars uh more than was expected allin adjusted EBIT of 3.
549 billion better than uh the estimate of 3.42 billion the adjusted margin is 7.9% for North America GM made 3.28 billion that's less than the first quarter of last year when they made 3.84 84 billion and they brought in about $45 million from China. That's an improvement compared to just an awful couple of years in China.
Remember, they took that huge right down and charge last year. I think what several billion dollars. So, they made $45 million in the first quarter in China as they restructure that business. Average transaction price $50,700. That's up about $1,000 per vehicle compared to the same quarter a year ago.
And here's the news that people will be focused on. General Motors is reassessing its 2025 guidance due to the potential impact of tariffs. There will be an impact. They just don't know to what degree. And as a result, they are not sticking by the guidance that they gave in January for 2025. And they are now reassessing, that's the word they're using, their guidance on tariffs.
We should get more details regarding how General Motors sees the landscape, especially in North America with regard to tariffs when the company does its conference call, not today, but on Thursday. And we'll talk about why in just a little bit. We'll also have a first on CNBC interview with General Motor CEO, chair, and CEO Mary Bar.
That will be on Squawkbox Thursday morning. And the reason that they are delaying the conference call and this interview with Mary is because the president will be in Detroit tonight where he's expected to announce the modifications and the offsets for the tariffs that should provide a little bit of relief to the automakers.
Exactly how much remains to be seen in terms of maybe not stacking the tariffs like steel and aluminum on top of the 25% imported auto tariff. also giving some relief in terms of supplier tariffs which are supposed to kick in starting on Saturday or Sunday. Uh so the bottom line is this guys, we'll find out on Thursday from General Motors how it is planning to offset these tariffs because they're still going to face higher costs.
The question is do they have a better sense after the president's announcement. Did they say anything? We used to wait for you to tell us what they said about EV uh production until the tariffs came out. anything at all about that they're just on track or where were they the last couple of times I report Phil were they pairing it back significantly or No no no they continue to ramp it up they have stood by their projections in terms of EV production as well as EV sales now the interesting thing Joe there's more
than a few people who are out there saying you've got capacity at factory zero which is being uh toolled to make electric vehicles uh in the Detroit area do they change that? Do they say, "Look, we've got to move some production and therefore one of the steps we're taking is to move some production into factory zero and scale back EV production there.
" But in terms of EV production in Spring Hill uh and sell production, we were there last year during the uh annual meeting for the uh for General Motors. No, they're they're sticking with that as of right now. Let's see on Thursday. You know, they could say something completely different come Thursday after they get a better sense from the Trump administration tonight about these offsets and modifications to the tariffs.
I was going to joke around and say, have they sold one yet? But what which ones are the It's the Equinox. Actually, they're number two in the US, Joe. Okay, Joe. They're number two in the US from the Equinox. Equinox is a big one. Yeah. What else? Uh it's not just the Equinox, but they've got some other vehicles as well. I mean, there's an electric Silverado now.
Chevy Blazer. I mean, they they have they have more than just one electric vehicle. Now, they're a distant uh you know, number two in terms of market share or number three. I think Hyundai's technically number two. Um but General Motors uh as an automaker has dramatically improved its EV sales relative to where they were.
Joe, I know you're going to sit there and say, "How much are they?" But relative to where they were, they've improved their EV sales. And on Ford, the Mustang, is that an EV now for that little crappy looking thing that that Well, they make they make both the traditional internal combustion car. And then now it looks like a almost looks like a uh and then they make the Mache there.
There is an electric version of the Mustang which is built in Mexico. It is for now. Okay. Hey, Phil, how how much of of GM's the production comes from either Canada or Mexico? And and how do you figure that out with the parts that are coming across too? Well, with the parts that makes it a little bit trickier. They do not have as much US-based production as Ford.
Um Ford has the most uh in this country, but what they're doing is they where possible, Becky, they are shifting some production. Good example is they make the full-size pickup trucks uh some of them down in Mexico. What are they doing? They're shifting some of that production up to the plant in Fort Wayne, Indiana, where they also make full-size pickup trucks, and they're going to increase their production, I think, annually by something like 50,000 vehicles.
Um, trying to take up some of the excess capacity there. Those are some of the steps that they're taking. All right, thanks, Phil. More to come obviously about on Thursday. Joining us right now to talk about it, Mark Fields, former Ford Motor Company president and CEO and a CNBC contributor.
Uh, tell us what kind of sigh relief may or may not be taking place in Detroit this morning. Mark. Well, I think Andrew that, you know, the OEMs get a partial win, but at least what was reported, uh, these tariffs are going to alleviate some of the duties on some of the imported parts and also for, uh, you know, keeping tariffs on cars that are imported into the US, you know, different tariffs stacking on top of each other.
So, I guess the net of it is it's it's a pullback on the margins. Uh, as I said, the OEMs get a partial win, but it's not a wholesale elimination of the tariff. Um, and I'm sure Andrew there was some kind of pridquo uh with the Trump administration in terms of the OEMs either committing to moving some production back to the US or also alternatively advocating very strongly in their supply base to move some of the parts manufacturing particularly for those less labor intensive parts to come back to the US.
So a bit of a sire relief but you know the bottom line is those tariffs are still there. It's going to increase the automakers costs and they're going to have to make a decision on how much do they pass on to consumers versus how much do they eat themselves. Of course, the president has promised to try to bring manufacturing back to the US.
When you say that the OEMs may have promised to bring things back or to push on suppliers to do the same kind of thing. How quickly do you think that happens and what does that do to the cost base? Well, in some cases it's it could be quicker than others. Let's uh use GM as an example. They produce full-size pickups uh down in Mexico and they have a plan I believe in Indiana and they've said they're going to pull in about a 100,000 units of the 400,000 units they make down there uh to Indiana.
So that can happen relatively quickly. But in other cases, you know, when you're looking at products that are made outside the US and let's say you have some capacity, open capacity here in the US, it's going to take, you know, at least, you know, 18 to 24 months at least to refacilitize those plants to allow that particular product to come back into the market, particularly if it's on what they call a different platform.
Uh, and then secondly, you know, if you're looking to uh to build a plant, you know, let's use an example. uh Hyundai Kia imports about 65% of their vehicles from Southside the US and with this 25% tariff from vehicles coming from Korea you know they'll build a plant and they're just bringing online for example a plant that they started back in 2019 2020 so you're looking five years there but it's going to be a combination of you know short timelines but also some medium to long timelines and then there's two related questions what kind of jobs does that mean do you
think that we're going to be seeing in the US? Are most of those factories uh humans? Are those robots? What does that actually look like? And and then what does it do to the cost base? Yeah. Well, first off on the cost base, the cost base is going to go up, right? Because you know when you're using you know labor costs that are much less in other parts of the world uh you know that that's going to increase your cost base.
But in terms of the labor, this is what's most interesting Andrew and it's a great question. You know, a lot of times in the automakers, we used to look at the labor content and we used to say, how much of that could we automate and we'd look at the cost of what it would the capital expendure cost to actually automate and buy the machinery versus uh just making the production overseas in lower labor cost areas.
So, I think what the automakers are are doing right now, first off, they're deciphering, you know, what do these changes mean? And, you know, they'll come out a little later today. So they have to understand the the reality. Then they're putting these you know probably big analytic groups in their purchasing areas and deciding looking at their their parts uh footprint and their suppliers and saying what parts are best for automating so that if we have to bring this these kind of parts back we can spend the capital expenditures automate reduce the uh
amount of labor and that's a more compelling business case than it was let's just say last year. So it doesn't lead to more jobs like that's the question. Yeah. Well, incrementally, yes, it will lead to more jobs, but it's not going to be a one for one. Uh I think the automakers are going to look very closely on moving very fast to automate as much of the processes as possible.
But the bottom line is yes, it will add jobs back here in the US. It will add investment uh because the automakers are going to be investing in capital equipment. Uh but it's not going to be a one for one uh tradeoff between what's you know employment overseas versus employment here in the US. Real quick, we got General Motors, Ford, Stellantis on the screen.
We probably should have Tesla on that screen as well. Um who do you think is the winner of this little situation right now? Is there a winner and a loser? Well, nobody's a winner in this, Andrew, for the very fact, as we talked about earlier, the cost for the automakers are going up. and it could be costs for consumers going up.
But relatively speaking, uh particularly if some of these changes that were reported by the Wall Street Journal last night on auto parts come through, I think the biggest winner is Tesla because, you know, they they have all of their production here in the US. Uh they're getting a lot of parts from overseas, but if these changes take into effect, they'll be a winner.
I think Ford also you know they're also producing 80% or assembling 80% of their vehicles here in the US. I think GM and Stalantis are going to be more challenged. Stalantis uh imports probably over 50% of their vehicles uh into the US. Uh GM about the same number. Uh and importantly, you know, GM and Stalantis produce a number of their full-size pickups which are big profit makers in some cases outside the US.
So that's going to hurt them more than let's say uh GM. And then finally, I I got a sort of techy question for you because there's been a little bit of debate about it. Um we heard from uh Google last week. They talked a lot about uh Whimo and and that earnings report. The first time they've talked about Whimo.
Tesla starting its robo taxi program in two months in Austin. Of course, Elon Musk has also talked about really having a massive uh robo taxi program where people are going to be effectively using their cars as robo taxis and sort of selling them or leasing them into fleets and things like that. Um, how far do you think Tesla is in that game versus where Whimo is and what does that look like to you long term? Well, when you look at Whimo versus Tesla, let's just just look at permits and the ability to operate.
I mean, Whimo is way ahead of Tesla in terms of getting the permits to operate their their their vehicles. I mean, when I go to San Francisco, I take Whimo all the time. They're they're already in the market there. They're in a couple other markets. Uh Tesla still needs to get the permits uh from, in this case, in California, from the California authorities.
I think secondly, listen, uh you know, Whimo has proven over the years, they're in five or six different cities now. Uh Tesla has talked a lot about this, but again, they're using a different technology. They're using cameras versus LAR, which is Whimo is is using. And so I think technologically speaking, it's still a big question mark how these Tesla vehicles are actually going to perform in some of these cities with a different technology, albeit, you know, they've mapped a lot of those cities because they have a lot of cars out there. So when do you think we know?
Question. When do you think we'll know whether whether Tesla's without LAR whether Tesla cars can can can fully do it? I mean, do you think that this Austin experiment will prove the point or not and you'll know after a month or two? Yeah, I think you're going to know relatively soon because in each of those states, you're going to have to report incidents.
And you know, if you have Tesla that's launching in June and let's say Austin, you're going to know in a couple of months, are there incidence rates higher than Whimo? So, I think you're going to know pretty quickly how they perform. Okay, Mark, want to thank you for joining us as always, especially on this Newsy Morning. Deont announcing the name of the planned spin-off of its electronics business.
Okay, I want you guys to look at this impromptu so you see how it's spelled. There it is. Can I buy a U? N I T Y. Apparently, it's pronounced quinity. It says that the name is inspired by Q, which is the symbol for the electrical charge and unity. It says the name reflects Roll up cuz I have no idea what it reflects.
the collaborative way that it works with customers. Unity is the letter. No, this is a very Don't do it. It's not too late. I guess Unity is already taken. I looked that one up. Unity is taken by a company. Oh, Unity. Unity. There used to be a computer company called Unity. And there's a 3D creation platform and software company that's called Unicus.
And then I thought there was another one called Unity because Infinity is taken. So it went with Unity. Oh, how much did that cost? That's going to be really tough. If this was us cuz we have we we have a we're awaiting our own spin right now. If they came up with community, I'm leaving. I'll go. They're like promise.
And that is Squawk Pod for today. Thanks for listening. Squawkbox is hosted by Joe Kernan, Becky Quick, and Andrew Ross Sorcin. You can tune in weekday mornings on CNBC at 6 Eastern. Get the smartest takes and analysis and interviews from our TV show right into your ears when you follow SquawkPod wherever you like to listen to podcasts.
We'll meet you right back here tomorrow. We are clear. Thanks, guys. Thank you guys so much. [Music]
Made with ❤️ byGlasp