Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English (auto-generated)
[Music] [Applause] Are you worried about your retirement accounts, your 401k, your IRA, your Roth accounts? The tariffs have you down? Does the volatility in the market have you down? Are you worried about what to do with your money? Well, here to talk with me about that and other things is Dr. Preston Cherry.
He's the author of a new book called Wealth in the Key of Life, and he's also the CEO of Concurrent Wealth Management. Preston, welcome. Ah, nice to see you again, Bob. Lots to talk about. Oh, a lot to talk about. So, let's start with where I began, which is a lot of folks are nervous about their retirement accounts.
And I'll just start by this very short story, which is I serve as the trustee of our town's retirement fund. It's a fund that will uh create the pensions for firemen and policemen and DPW workers. And I have to say folks are a little bit worried about their pensions at the moment as are many other people who are worried about whether their 401k will become a 2011k.
Well, what advice do you have for folks? Well, that's very valid. Number one, and so folks are worried about, like you said, where are these tariffs going to do to their pockets and and their pocketbooks and their portfolios? I mean, so how do people grocery shop and how people prepare for retirement? Right.
And I I think proximity to to retirement either four or five years before or four or five years out is very important. you mentioned your your pension fund and you know it has several you know million in it's it's a nice chunk of change there and for those nearterm pension folks they're going to get their checks and and so pensions have a longer time horizon so those folks that are 10 15 20 years out okay you know uh worrying about the fund coming down to say you know you know a lesser amount then yes I mean because that's just like social
security Right. Social Security right now is paying out fully. It's a pay as you go. And those folks that are in retirement, they're they're having their social security checks now. That said, you at the surplus is about to run out. And are we going to get the question is are we going to get uh 70 80 90% cents on the dollar? Now for those if this uh you know tariff activity and economic activity happens two three four years in a row then yes that could severely impact those that are expecting their pension checks say you know five seven
10 years out. Yeah. So for folks who have a 401k it's not a pension it's a defined contribution plan. What they put in is what they'll get out. Uh and and they're worried about the effect of tariffs on their retirement accounts. They're worried about the market volatility. They're worried about the possibility of a recession and some even say stagflation for those folks.
What's your advice? Well, preserve and protect that. But but don't panic. I mean that I know that's hard to do because you know when we had these shocks to the system, Bob. Uh we have, you know, financial crisis.com, right? Geopolitical risk and wars. These shock co these are shocks to the system and folks always ask what's different this time and this time we have uh self-induced uncertainty and that's a little harder to swallow um because when you talk about geopolitical risk whether it be war or economical or political risk inside the uh the borders
of the country uh those tend to happen in market cycles and they are true uh unex economic and market cycles and they are true unexp expected uncertainty. But folks say, you know, in many categories, Bob, this a pill hard to swallow, which is why are you bringing stuff on yourself? And and for those folks, this is what feels different this time.
However, same uh principles which is not to panic because an outright sell out of the market tends to miss those uh 10 best days uh of of the market and and and that helps preserve your portfolio, helps with uh you know outliving your income as well because as we saw last week or in the week before uh there was a lot of red on the board for about 4 days and then as soon as the administration act uh announced a pause there was a 12% day in the market the next day.
Nobody could have predicted that. However, if you remain stayed invested in the market with adjustments, we'll talk about that in a minute. But if you not panic sell all the way out, then at least some of your portfolio is exposed to the market during those recovery days and periods after uh long long-term shocks. Yeah. So, after long-term shocks, I think people also need to have a long-term horizon.
So when I think about the the 2000 debacle, it took I think 6 years for the market to recover the large caps and even longer for the small caps. uh also with 08 I think forget the exact period of time but it took a couple three years for the market to recover from '08 and and likewise 2020 right we've had a was a faster recovery I think in the 2020s the co era but nonetheless um if we look to the the 2000s which sometimes people refer to as the lost decade uh there is this notion that you do have to have a long-term time horizon the market may
not recover um uh for some period of time but if you have a long-term time horizon you can withstand these long-term shocks. Yes. And you know, bare markets, we haven't gotten there yet, but we're we're probably going into one. They they tend to last 18 to 24 months and then uh have the actually bare markets are a little bit shorter and then the recovery periods to get there uh are about like you said 10 uh two years something like that, right? Uh so what what will you have to have cushion in your portfolio so not paddic
and then we have another couple I love alliteration you know preserve and protect here's another one slight pivots slight pivots in your portfolio there is nothing wrong with uh making tactical shifts and raising some cash in order to help smooth out the sideways or bumpy ride in the economy for the next six to 18 months perhaps uh in order to have some cash at the ready.
That way can not uh you know severely affect your lifestyle now uh either you know in your high income years or whatever income years you are those four or five years before retirement or those four or five years after retirement have some cash on hand so you don't pull out everything out of your portfolio and panic cell and have that what's left to experience the recovery when it does happen.
Right? So, if the analogy is you're a pilot in a fighter jet right now and the plane is going down, uh it doesn't mean it's going to hit the ground and don't push the ejector seat. Stay in the plane. It it might get a little bumpy and rocky, but uh you you should be able to pull out of this decline. Yeah. Yes.
You know, and and too, it's also too uh if you're in using that air fighter analogy, if you do eject, right, uh there is a high survival rate as long as the parachute works, right? There's a parachute work, right? And that parachute, Bob, is having some of that cash available in your uh in your your brokerage or your savings, your high yield savings account, all that in order to help protect your other portfolio.
Also too, it it's a good time to uh perhaps uh shift the allocations in your or readjust them. So, doing some rebalancing in your portfolios. Also too, Roth conversions for those that want to uh you know pay taxes on a lower portfolio amount and also tax loss harvesting for those brokerage accounts, not the retirement accounts, but those brokerage accounts uh showing you know pocketing those type of losses and offset gains when uh when the market and the economy is doing well.
And here's another thing as I close which is it is when your portfolio is up and the economy is doing well. I ask folks, please take those some of those games, not all of them, but some of them in your taxable brokerage accounts because it feels good to win a little bit. So now during these times where yes, uh folks are uh losing and and they need to be affirmed about those feelings, then uh hopefully you won't be uh avoidant and going ahead and trimming those losses because you have offsetting uh you know, losses and gains. Yeah,
President, it's refreshing to hear you talk because so often we talk to people and they'll say, "Oh, stick to your plan, whatever that plan may be, but you seem to be suggesting it's okay to tinker and and make some tactical moves to take advantage of the opportunities and avoid the risk that might be there.
" Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. I mean, if you if somebody came to you and and it was thunderstorming and lightning outside and they were like, you know, uh don't worry about this umbrella or anything like that. Just keep walking down the street, right? you don't have any rain boots or anything like that. That would sound crazy, right? So, so somebody if somebody folks, hey, you know what? Here's some rain boots.
Here's an umbrella a little bit, right? That way you can keep walking down the street uh with a little bit of protection, right? And and hopefully to rain with society. And I and I'll say this too, not everything has to be worrisome. uh if you if folks do have the opportunity to you know perhaps buy some positions on sale enter the market uh right now then that's also suggested as well it depends on all your what you what your positions are and your life cycle your life stage your risk capacity all that uh however I was just in New York the other day and there
was a sale at at at Gap my wife loves Baby Gap and uh Baby Gap is not it's not cheap it used to be cheap when I was a young but my point about is there was a big sale and so yes we take advantage of sales and other stuff so this uh could be an opportunity to take buy some stuff on sale on the market as well. Yeah.
So one thing that we know is many young workers middle-aged workers are saving for retirement with their employer 401k and they're using target date funds where they may not have the same advantage to sort of make tactical moves because the manager is making these moves on their behalf. Any thoughts about what folks who own target day funds ought to be doing besides biting their fingernails? Sure.
I mean, you can reduce your exposure to target day funds. Again, if you're in that pocket, that that's that 3 to 5 years before retirement or 3 to 5 years after. And if you're in 3 to 5 years before retirement, that uh target date fund is probably already making the adjustments to, you know, out of the market just naturally, you know, the way target dates fund, right? taking some risk off the table.
So instead of a say 80 20 you know equities to to to to fixed income 7030 6040 well perhaps your target date fund is already at 50/50. Uh so my my advice for those or my suggestion for those that are uh nearing retirement is to check the the actual target date. I know that's that sounds cliche, but check that target date because that target date is going to match how that fund is uh adjusting the equity to fix fixed income ratio on your portfolio.
For those that are 20s, 30s, well, you have you have what the greatest gift on earth at your ex at your exposure, which is time, right? And uh for for most of those folks again depending on your individual situation and all that uh because you have time it you could probably just keep that target day fund and and it's over or or and it's heightened exposure to equities.
All right. Uh Preston we have to take a short break and when we come back I promise we're going to talk about the very thing that I wanted to talk about as well which is your new book which is called Wealth in the Key of Life. Don't go away. Welcome back to Decoding Retirement. I'm talking to Preston Cherry.
He is the author of a new book called Wealth in the Key of Life. He's also the CEO of Concurrent Wealth Management. He's in Green Bay right now. And uh I'm guessing you're a Packers fan, right Preston? Well, yeah. Packers and and the Chiefs. So, so hometown is Houston, birthtown is Kansas City, a live town is the Packers. And you know the historical uh Super Bowl battle back in Super Bowl one and two with the Packers and the Chiefs.
It's one of I think I was all of maybe 10 years old when I watched the very first uh game in ' 67 which was a fantastic game from memory if memory serves. Packers won. It was Yeah. And then the Chiefs won the next one I think. Yeah. So all right President let's talk about your new book.
We uh you have a number of sort of sayings in the book. One of which is called the six alignment system which frames how people can improve their relationship with money. And goodness knows lots of people could stand to do that. Tell us more about that. Yeah, sure. Uh, you know, everybody needs a a system, an approach. And and I I I'm a fan of being giving yourself grace during your life and money journey, compassion, right? Because if you open up the heart Bob then you open up the mind because people the order of operations is know the person and then
enter in the process so people can start progressing on their journey wherever that uh life's course is. So the 6A alignment system is a framework for that which is you know admitting where you are in your journey wherever it is right it doesn't necessarily have to be from a trial or or somewhere that you're suffering it could be from a high point as well like going into retirement right so admitting where you are acknowledge what you're feeling at that time very important uh how do you feel you have regret shame judgment want to be better
whatever it may be and that's kind of like cleaning the pallet uh where you're doing a little wine tasting you got to take a swig of water between right and that's that's that process of just going through that then you prepared yourself now to take action and that's the fun part now you say okay my pallet is clean now I can go forward and then the last part is align aspire achieve align your life and money and have them work as partners right and then what are your aspirations how do you how does your retirement look like for you right how
does your for gen X how is your high income life look like right now and and talking about the sandwich generation. How does that look far as your aspirations? And then go about achieving them and and have the permission to prosper. Bob, you know, a lot of folks say, you know, I'm looking left, I'm looking right, I'm looking at the Joneses, I'm looking uh you know, what everybody else is doing.
My dad always says, keep your blinders on, son. Look straight, right? And go about you have the permission to thrive and prosper the way you want, right? Um President, is it hard work to do this? I mean it takes it sounds like you know it doesn't like happen naturally right it doesn't but you know it takes courage I call it the sea of C's so you have courage uh commitment consistency and then compounding and the the other one is is compassion right and if you have this approach uh it's it's progress not perfection and if you go to just take
just start just start and that's take that's the courage give yourself some grace That's the compassion part. And then once you commit with some consistency, then the return on life, return on your investments and portfolio and then also your return on all aspects of financial planning by the way, whether it be estate, insurance, tax, whatever may be, right? Those healthy decisions that are aligned with your life and money start compounding over time and you start seeing the change in your finances and in your uh your
well-being overall. Yeah. a journey of what uh 10,000 miles starts with the first step. Something like that. Every time. Every time. And I'm not a promoter of being cherry on top. I guess that's pun intended for from my last name. But but to your point, not everything is easy, but it can be uh somewhat enjoyable.
And uh along the way, and this is what I mean, there's award days, Bob, and then there's reward days. All right? If let's take retirement for example the day that you retire right that's an award that's like that's like creating a music album and that was the process the process is the reward that is you get to be in the journey and then when you end up on Billboard or whatever award it is and that award day you get award for the process.
So the point about it is is yes it can be challenging at times but if you look at it through you know I get the opportunity to design the life that I want life and money then I'm being rewarded for being in the process. So, all right. So, Preston in the book, you have the six A's. You mentioned the four C's.
You also have the four T's. Tell us about that. As you can see, I love alliteration, right? I love it. And trial, triumph, transition, and transformation. Uh, money doesn't always have to be uh from trial and trauma. That said, investigating your relationship with money, Bob, past, present, and future will help flush out those trials.
And it'll also help uh analyze and to look through a lens of your triumphant moments, those milestone moments in life, whether it be a a new a new career, right? They could be had some stock options, a windfall, right, coming to your pocket or or retirement, a child birth, a grandchildren, whatever it may be. Those are triumphant moments.
Then it's like, okay, what do I want to do next? Because see, retirees sometimes have a a hard time imagining themselves in retirement and not only will not live fully in their retirement far as life well-being. They won't take advantage of their money either. Right? So, it's a willingness to transition that's the other tage whatever it may be and then uh transform transform the way that you are living into your ideal life. All right.
Make that transformation. And I'll end with this is that Michael Jackson had a famous song man in the mirror. So person in the mirror if you want to look at it like that and say and at the end of the song Bob he said make that change. All right. And and that's that uh that's for that's that transformation I'm talking about. Yeah.
So Preston uh you have a certified financial planner designation as do I. But you also have another designation called the certified financial therapist. And the merging of these two uh knowledge designations makes for I think a unique experience for you. Uh tell us how you are able to sort of influence the perspective of people having a truly successful retirement given those two designations.
Yes, absolutely. you know uh people have to see themselves in their financial plan and if they don't then there's no stick to stick tuitiveness to the plan right and this is why it always goes back to the the people centered process and people like oh that's cliche that well that doesn't mean anything but you know what if you don't then people won't even start the plan won't commit to a plan won't enjoy the the prospering of the plan right and I always say if folks can see their preferences their life stage which is points right their
purpose and then the their their financial plan will then prosper. All right. So, more P's more alliteration. But I if folks can uh rarely are folks asked, you know, about themselves and to see themselves, investigate themselves, discover, and I get this question often, Bob, is you know what, I've never been asked that or you know, thank you for asking because then now people see their their feelings turn into f the numbers of finances and then now you can flourish.
Yeah. So, uh, Preston, talk about maybe about how you've helped, uh, people apply the principles of your book in their real lives to achieve a satisfying retirement. You know, here at Decoding Retirement, we're we're always fond of asking our guests to provide some actionable advice. So, this is my request here. Absolutely.
So, I had one client one time and it they they said, "Well, they ex happen to have like $8 million into their to their name." Right. And this was liquid assets, Bob. So, I don't know about you, but I think I can make $8 million work. All right. Right. And then the question was, uh, I'm going to work a couple more years.
And then they said, we're going to retire. But they were like, you know what? How about working one more year at a shot at a 50/50 $5 million payout? Now, mind you, they were going to get a bonus the next two years, right? With about for about 500,000 in their equity, stock compensation. So, that's another million dollars if you work two years.
Well, it was a 50/50 shot and probably less that they were going to get this magical payout from the company that was going to be bought, right? So, the the question is is what does that third year mean to you, right? And you want to get to living life. If you're in your mid-50s, I mean, you could go out and, you know, transition, transform, right? D.
And so, we talked through that for uh several months. It took about six. And uh what happened is is that the person ended up retiring after two years. And that payout never happened because this is a client I had for about three years, right? And they called me back and they said that payout never happened, by the way.
And I said, how did you feel about it if they would have paid out anyway? They said, you know what, that that last year wasn't worth it. You know, so that's one one way of aligning your your life ideal life design with your finances and asking a question like what is that 5050 payout mean to you? Does it mean more? Do you value it more than getting into getting on with the getting on now and enjoying the life that you've uh saved and invest for? Yeah.
Uh Preston, I really have enjoyed chatting with you. I'm afraid we've run out of time, but I really want to thank you for sharing your knowledge and wisdom with us and talking about your book. I know we didn't get to all the chapters and but I'll I'll invite you to come back on a future episode and we can maybe talk about the four Z's or the four Y's or whatever other acronyms that you have in the book.
All good. Thank you for having me. And the book aligns with Stevie Wonders songs in the key key of life for those music lovers. Yeah. Well, that wraps up this episode of Decoding Retirement. We hope we provided you with some actionable advice to help you better plan for or live in retirement. And don't forget, for the latest retirement news and analysis, check out yahooinance.com.
This content was not intended to be financial advice and should not be used as a substitute for professional financial services. [Music]
Made with ❤️ byGlasp