Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English (auto-generated)
Let's get to Starbucks. That company reporting second quarter comp sales missing analyst estimates largely because of weakness in North America and in the US specifically. Comp sales fell by 2%. That is a bigger drop than analysts had anticipated. I believe this is the fifth consecutive quarter of declines in comps overall.
Uh second quarter comp sales overall for the company down 1%. Interestingly, one bright spot or at least on a relative basis was China. Comparable sales there were flat. Analysts had been looking for a drop of more than 2%. So that's an interesting detail here. It looks like adjusted earnings per share missing estimates by 8 cents coming in at 41 cents.
What's interesting is the tone in the statement at least is still relatively positive. Brian Nickel, the CEO of the company. He says, "My optimism has turned into confidence that our back to Starbucks plan is the right strategy to turn the business around and to unlock opportunities ahead. There's been some reporting about some technological changes and throughput changes that the company's made to try to get drinks and other products in the hands of customers faster.
" Um, so perhaps that's one of the things that he is referring to there. Uh, but Josh, we're seeing a quick uh little bit of a downdraft in the shares here. Yeah. Ending into this one, your stock was down about 10% this year. It's down about 5% over the past 12 months and we're kind of bouncing here in the after hours. Down about 2% right now.
China does get a lot a lot of attention, a lot of headlines because a lot of crosss there, macro pressure, competitive pressure, of course, throwing out trade war. I know analysts bring up the risk of US brand boycotts, but it isn't interesting that that they would come in flat like that. Um more commentary from the CFO as well saying while our financial results are far from Starbucks potential.
Uh Kathy Smith says, "We are working to build back a better business." She goes on to say, "We are developing new muscles to test, iterate, and scale quickly." Yeah. The only mention of tariffs in this statement, I'm sure it'll get mentioned on the call. The only mention in the statement is in the sort of disclaimers and disclosures at the end, risk factors for the company.
So, we'll see what they'd say in terms of tariff effect on coffee itself, for example, raw materials. Um, and also the whole issue of consumer confidence in this environment. Here with more on Starbucks latest quarterly results, let's get to Bernstein senior analyst Denal Gargulo. Um, thank you so much, Deno, for being here.
Um, and as we look at these numbers, how concerned are you about the US sales number just still seeing declines there? I'm not overly concerned. Um I would say that the transformation that Ryan Nikl and his new management team are trying to be putting in place is going to take some time. Change management doesn't come easy and also you need to be training the consumers onto the new Starbucks or I should say the back to Starbucks plan.
So it's going to take a bit of time for that to happen. Um at the same time as you pointed out a few minutes ago uh the tone seemed to be quite optimistic which might be indicating that some of the transformation initiatives are already working out and so it's a matter of scaling those into the United States know the plan that Brian Nichols has in place here you know speed up the service tailor the menu does he have the right plan the right strategy in place I I I I'm very confident this is the right strategy in space.
I think uh Starbucks was trying to be everything for everybody and not necessarily owning a specific space within the product as well as within the channels of distribution where you can really uh enlight the consumers. Uh today Brian Nickel is basically saying look we need to be owning one space really well and execute at the best of our capability and this is within our stores and coffee.
So forget about all the other distraction that can come in. Let's focus our strategy on what we do on where we are our best and then start to be reconquering the rest of this placement. So I think focus is the number one uh priorities for the company. But I would think that starting to be increasing the speed of operations to enable that is also paramount to uh allow consumers to have a little bit of a easier morning when they come in and they see um that a lot of other people are just in front of them in the line.
Um when do you think all of this is going to start to bear some fruit? Um I would say we um we might be seeing some pockets of opportunity already starting to be unlocked. I would be expecting this one already in the next uh couple of months, but for this one to be at scale, it's probably going to take some time.
I mean, we're probably talking about at least six months to a year until we get a real turnaround from an experience standpoint. Once again, there is a change management within the store. So training the baristas, but there is also a setting the right expectations with consumers, delight them enough, invite them back to the stores and give them the right experience so that they will want to come back.
So in the numbers, we're probably going to start to see that, you know, at least six months from now. You know, uh, China comp sales flat. That's actually better than the street was looking for. Curious what you make of that number. And how do you how do you see that China business developing from here? Well, that's an excellent question.
I I think the the real controversy on China is on the potential evolution of the geopolitical tensions between America, United States and China itself. Um clearly the competition has been rising but this is not news anymore. Uh the ramp up of lacking coffee and other formidable players in China has been going on for the past two to three years.
But what is new is that now there is more sentiment the worldwide sentiment shifting toward domestic brands also as a response to the increasing tariffs uncertainty that we see here in the United States. So the key question for investors is going to be are we going to start to see some boycots that are maybe comparable to the one that we had seen during the Middle East crisis and if so what does it mean for the future of Starbucks in China? Final question know just you know you look at the stock here heading into the print we were down about 10% this year
I'm just curious how you think about valuation for this one yeah I would say the valuation is um uh a little bit compressed considering that there is a a clear path toward the reaceleration of Starbucks if you think about how the the comp potential might be unlocked just purely from lapping of the traffic um we are going to start to see some material reaceration as I said for likely in you know in in in about 6 months from now when some of these initiatives are going to be starting in place but I would say from a riskreward
standpoint it's very hard to put any downgrade on the multiple at which Starbucks is running today and I would say the multiple today is not fairly reflecting all the upside potential that Starbucks has. So I see that the riskreward is tilting to the positive at least on a two to one basis. D great to have you on the show today.
Thanks for joining us.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp