Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
[Music] President Trump's first 100 days in office has been volatile to say the least. We're going to compare the market's performance since he was inaugurated to what the market expected after the election. I'm Jared Blickery, host of Stocks in Translation. And to begin with today, we're going to take a look at how large cap S&P 500 sectors, all 11 of them, have performed from November 5th of last year through January 17th, which was the last day of trading before the inauguration.
And we have that chart right here. It goes from materials all the way on the left, which was down a bit over that period, all the way to consumer discretionary, which was the biggest gainer. Consumer discretionary houses Amazon and also Tesla. Tesla saw that huge jump right after the inauguration and it looked like Jeff Bezos was making friendly with uh President Trump and then things reversed a bit.
But before I move on, I want to show you what was really popping in those early days after the election. Those were those market expectations. So financials were a big runner up there to consumer discretionary that was based on the deregulation push that uh President Trump was uh part of his agenda there. We also saw energy that was the uh another trade that was kind of a pillar of his first administration.
And then what wasn't working those early days real estate, consumer staples, and healthc care, those are all defensive sectors, but also materials, a cyclical sector. That was kind of an outlier. So an interesting case, but I do want to move on to what's actually happened since the inauguration. And I have two little data points on each of these sectors to help us decode that.
So the red dot, focus on that first. That was the inauguration to the April 8th market low and that was about 80 calendar calendar days or so. So not the full 100 about 3 fifths or four fifths of that. But you can see the worst off was tech. Tech just got absolutely battered. Consumer discretionary as well.
That's that Amazon and Tesla trade. Even energy reversed hard to the downside. And then a lot of these other cyclical uh trades kicked in to the downside as well. industrials, materials stayed negative and also some others. Uh, but I do want to kind of bring it to the present here. I'll do that in a second and just tell you the white bar is where we are now.
So, we've seen a lot of these losses mitigated and we can see that in consumer discretionary. We had a big rally by Amazon and Tesla. We've seen tech come roaring back and we'll take a look at that in a second. Industrials, energy, materials. So, we've made some significant gains off the lows. So now we're going to take a look at what's happening since the inauguration in real time on the Wi-Fi interactive here.
And this is the heat map. This is how things are shaking out. Only consumer staples is in the green during this period. That's a pretty defensive sector. And if you look at the runners up, that would be utilities, real estate, and XLV, which is healthcare. Those are all very defensive sectors.
So that's not the that's not the greatest setup for a bull run. Um, by the way, the worst off still consumer discretionary and also energy to the downside, but and but and but we've made some tremendous gains off of those lows that we saw uh in the recent past. And at the number one spot is tech.
So, it's nice to see that early leader in the bull trade, the AI trade. Tech kind of resuming its perhaps rightful place in this bull market, which it still is. We haven't experienced that 20% draw down just yet. tech number one, consumer discretionary number two, the Amazon Tesla trade and then materials, even materials has come back. Industrials, XLI there.
So, we've seen cyclicals come running back and then what has been the lagard? Everything's in the green, but we do have uh some some uh sectors that are lagging. XLV is the biggest. That's healthcare, then staples, then energy, then utilities. Those are all very defensive sectors for the most part. And uh you put it all together, we have the makings of a potential bull run here.
Uh I don't want to get too far ahead of ourselves because we are looking for that next catalyst. So we'll have to see how this one pans out. Tune in to Stocks and Translation for more market decoding deep dives. New episodes on Tuesdays and Thursdays on Yahoo Finance's website or wherever you find your
Made with ❤️ byGlasp