Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
[Music] Hello and welcome to Asking for a Trend. I'm Josh Lipton and for the next half hour, we're breaking down the trends of today that'll move stocks tomorrow. There is a lot to keep track of, so we're focusing on what you need to know to get ahead of the curve. Here's some of the trends we're going to be diving into.
Stocks end higher on Wall Street today amid corporate earnings, soft economic data, and news out of Washington on the tariff front. And the White House says it's scaling back its 25% tariffs on imported cars and auto parts that are set to go into effect next month. We're taking a deep dive into what it all means for investors and consumers.
And a digitally savvy makeup brand is also navigating the cost of doing business during a trade war. We're going to learn more about what it takes to get cosmetics to market in this climate. Well, President Trump signed an executive order that will provide some tariff relief for the auto industry. For more, we're bringing in now Aaron Keading, executive analyst at Cox Automotive.
Aaron, it is great to see you. So, Trump stepping in here, taking steps to soften the impact there of these auto tariffs. It it was a bit complicated, Aaron. I'm curious. First, just to start high level, your thoughts, your reaction. Yeah, I mean obviously he hasn't declared it officially through any kind of formal notice, but we've heard that it looks like there's going to be some content reduction or price offset for manufacturers that are actually assembling in the US um where they'll be able to offset 3.75% of the price for parts that are
foreign parts. So remember, there's a couple of different ways the tariffs are being applied. Some are if you have a completely uh assembled vehicle entering the country that's the 25% and then there are the vehicles that are assembled here but are going to be paying for automotive parts that are coming into the country to build those cars.
That's where he's looking to potentially offset some of the cost. But at 3.755% and then down to 2 and a half% next year and then gone in the third year. Uh we're not necessarily anticipating this to be a huge relief although any cuts to tariffs will count. So I I I was interested and you're kind of leading me there, Erin.
Just if I was a CEO and I was running an auto company, how I would be thinking about this, whether I would be breathing some giant sigh of relief or would I be thinking, okay, I'm just going to listen, I I I was thrown something. I'll take it. Yeah. I mean, I think right now they're going to be happy with anything that's thrown their way because it's a complicated um calculus that they're all having to do.
and anything certain, more importantly, anything certain, something that's going to be dictated in stays so that they can start to do some real financial planning around what might happen in the future. Um, I can imagine that they're happy about, but this particular break is again just on um the vehicles, the parts that are going into vehicles.
Just keep in mind that there has been no mention about vehicles parts that are coming into the country that would perhaps be for those that need to repair their vehicles. All of those parts still being imported would be theoretically hit with the full 25%. And that of course will matter to anyone who owns used vehicles or has a car that they might need to get repaired sometime soon.
And then furthermore, there was some talk around not stacking. Well, theoretically, a car that's coming in fully assembled may not have been subjected to the stacking tariff of teal steel and aluminum either ways, you know. So, there's not really a whole lot of give there either. So, it's a little bit confusing. I'm anxious to see how the president actually um fills out some of the holes that we have right now.
Uh we expect him to do that around six o'clock tonight, but it's not overwhelming me with a lot of great news from a bottom line perspective. If I'm if I'm running one of these car companies, Aaron, I'm running GM, I'm running Ford. Bottom line, am I bringing back more manufacturing here to the states? Because that of course is Trump's goal here, right? That's what he wants. Yeah.
I mean, you know, we've said all along, every automaker has been heavily invested in the United States, and we expect that there are going to be more investments in the country. It's one of the largest automotive markets in the world. Um, and we do anticipate that assembly might be more possible, quicker.
um building up our parts supply chain here in the United States. That's a little tougher um to imagine that we would be able to reshore as many parts in manufacturing that could really offset this whole tariff um imposition here. But should I expect to see more assembly coming into the United States? Sure. Um will it be again enough to really offset what the goals of the president really hopes to, you know, attempt by this? I'm I'm not sure that I think it's going to be um a wash, if you will. Erin, I'm curious.
If you look at the American automakers, Ford, GM, Tesla, are there certain names that are that are more relatively well positioned against this tariff threat than others that are that are selling a lot of what they're making here, right? Right. Well, so it's interesting you say Tesla because we do know that they are one of the most quote unquote Americanmade vehicles in the country, but their volume is relatively small considering that they only sell electric vehicles.
And we know that they only currently make up about 8% of sales total electric vehicles total in the United States. Ford certainly is a little bit more well positioned, we think. Um, you know, Stellantis just behind that, GM just behind that. You know, with GM specifically, we know there's some challenges because some of their more affordable, popular volume models are actually imported currently, but we do anticipate that they will, you know, make every effort to try to avoid having to put a lot of cost onto those
particular models. Um, especially given their popularity and where they sit within their portfolio. Um, and then, you know, we can't forget that Honda, Toyota, um, we have several foreign automakers, if you will, that have substantial, uh, assembly plants here in the United States. and are almost on par with some of our domestic automakers.
Do you think those foreign car makers, Erin, are are they going to bring even more? Would you expect them to bring even more manufacturing here uh remain on Trump's good side? I mean, and after all, I mean, they they can't obviously ignore the American market, right? Too big, too lucrative. Sure. They can't. No, they can't ignore it for sure.
Um and I do think that you might see some swapping out of production. We've already heard that, for instance, um Hyundai is saying, "Okay, well, we're not going to necessarily put the Tucson that we need in Canada. We're not going to pull them from our US supply. We're actually going to bring those over from Japan.
I don't think that that means that now there is quote unquote more production happening. It just means that we might be transitioning those tons that were originally manufactured here to go into Canada might now stay here in the US. Um but again, I think every automaker has a vested interest in making sure that they can cater to this market.
The profitability in this market is uh is is arguable and they need to they can't ignore it. Um, and we know that Nissan, for instance, is looking at pulling back, uh, pulling back up into operation, more shifts so that they can get more vehicles going here in the United States. So, I think we'll absolutely see an increase in activity. Um, again, it's anyone's guess, and it's probably a 5year time horizon before we really see what has moved the needle from a production coming to the United States uh, perspective.
Aaron, so good to have you on the show today. Thanks so much for your time. Sure. Happy to talk to you. Stick around. Much more asking for a trend that's still to come. The Dow extends its longest win streak of 2025 as stocks rise amid the latest tariff relief in Yahoo Finance. Jared Blickery joins us now with the trading day takeaways.
Jared, thank you Josh. We got to start with the 100 days, the final tally. So, let's just do that right now. I'm going to start with the sector action. really interesting to see what happened here because remember the election to the inauguration was wildly bullish and then we saw this huge reversal.
So here is the final scores on the door. Staples and then utilities and real estate the only sectors in the green. Staples up 5%. Uh but you notice these top four here and I'm going to throw healthcare which is basically break even. Those are defensive sectors. So this was a very defensive move here even when uh some of these issues traded in the green or closed in the green here. XLY is consumer discretionary.
That's Amazon and that's also Tesla. Tesla got cut in half after that huge rally after the election. Energy also down right along with tech which is really interesting because energy and tech typically over the last three years have traded opposite each other. But there they are towards the bottom. But I'm going to show you something else here.
I want to show you since the bottom of this equity rally. And so on 48, that's April 8th, we had the price loan, the S&P 500 and some of the other majors. That's what I'm measuring this against. And now you see a lot of green. So tech is up 16% leading the way once again still in this bull market as it did for the first two years.
Consumer discretionary that's Amazon and Tesla that's number two. Then XLB materials that was actually negative after the election that has swung positive since April 8th. Then industrials to the downside. Even uh healthc care staples energy utilities those four defensive sectors in the green by decent amounts here.
So, we've we've made some decent progress for the bulls, but remains to be seen if we can continue up to those record highs here. We got some ways to go. And with just one more day left in April, how are we looking? Yeah, let's go to monthto date. This is going to be pretty similar. Well, in theory, it should be pretty similar because we're only consider we're only considering a few days more, but because the bulk of the uh downswing that we had happened in the beginning of the month, it actually looks vastly different.
So tech is up there that uh held some sway this month up 1% then discretionary than utilities but energy took the biggest whack to the downside and look at that energy on the opposite side of uh tech here when you look at the monthly totals let's go to the next one because we are talking bubbles and there's no bubble in AI yet is there um anyway I had a chance to speak with Dan Newman he's the CEO of Futurum Group and this was a a stocks and translation discussion that we had with him and he's saying that well let me just leave it to him I'll let him
speak we're building out all this infrastructure but every quarter you sit around you listen to Microsoft they say oh we are now generating $10 billion annual run rate from all of this investment last I checked they spent they're going to spend 80 this year so I think some of this is when does it start to translate to those CEOs implementing solutions and then they go back we're getting value from this we're running more efficiently we have agents that are doing tasks for us and actually helping us make money and run our businesses
better. I think that gap in there, that white space is where a bubble could potentially exist, but there's so much investment going into seeing that that doesn't become a bubble. This is not the internet bubble. So, look at all that forward thinking there. Uh the bubble, there may be a bubble in the future sometimes when people when businesses actually figure out how to monetize monetize AI in a big way, but what we've already seen probably not a bubble, especially looking with the rearview mirror. Um, and I think that's the end
of that. So, no bubble. Yes. But plenty of volatility. We know. What are the updates there? Yes. A lot of volatility. And I was checking I was checking through the Yahoo Finance tickers. We actually have at least 15 volatility VIX related tickers. And I'm just going to go through a few of them.
We're going to start out with the VIX, the original, the VIX volatility index. This is the latest uh over one year. And this big spike here, no surprise, this is what happened over the month of April. Now, this big spike over here, that was Yen Mceddon. And that was that oneoff event that really didn't disrupt the markets that much unless you were in the currency trade.
But I want to show you what this chart looks like compared to realized volatility because the VIX is implied. This is what the uh traders in the options market think about the future. This is what actually happened in the S&P, the S&P 500. Notice it's still trending pretty high here. And when did that trend start? It started the same.
It started about a month after the uh election. So sometime in December, we got that bottom in realized volatility. We've just been going higher ever since. We have a lot of other volatility related tickers. We even have the VIX of the VIX. I'm not going to get into that because it tends to make people's head spin. Uh but uh I'll go back here.
The the original VIX is 30-day volatility, but we also have one-day volatility. Why would you want to see that? Because that's more retail oriented, whereas the 30-day volatility, the original VIX is more institutionally oriented. But if you look at what the retail traders are pricing in here, that has actually come down more than the institutional.
So retail traders um although they got jostled with everybody else and they got an even higher reading than the original VIX, they have come down even more. Uh so there's a lot in here, but all these tickers available on the Yahoo Finance website. Finally, what about oil, gold, and gold volatility? What what are they saying? All right, so let's take a look at oil here because we do have that.
Um actually, let's start with gold. Gold is interesting. It's a little bit different than the other uh than the stock indices than the stock fixes because as gold goes higher, its volatility tends to go higher. What do we see right now? It's coming off of its peak rather sharply. So maybe the uh rally in gold losing a little bit of a momentum here. Still quite elevated.
So I'm not saying the rally is over by any stretch. And then crude oil. Crude oil looks a little bit different. It is ticking up again. So we got to track that oil volatility heading into the close. And we will close everybody. Appreciate it. Stick around. Much more Ash for a trend still to come.
Shares of Oddity Tech soaring in the after hours at the consumer tech firm boosts its net revenue guidance for the full year and announces a beat on the top and bottom lines. For more on the numbers, let's welcome in now Lindseay Ducker, Oddity Global CFO as well as Yahoo Finances. Julie Hyman, of course, is good to see you here on set. So, you report your stock is ripping in the after hours.
You're up more than 21% right now. Walk us through the report. What are you seeing in the business? Listen, I think in a moment like today where there's a lot of uncertainty in the environment, you look at oddity and our results have been very consistent. This is um two years since we went public. We've reported eight times. Every single time we've reported results, we've beat on the quarter and we've raised our fullear outlook.
And the reason we're able to do that with so much consistency is because what's affecting our business is so much more powerful than disruption and volatility and consumer spending. And it's pretty straightforward. Number one, we compete in a very large and attractive global TAM. Beaut's $600 billion in size.
It's um dominated by offline incumbents and ripe for disruption in our view. Number two, there's two very powerful shifts happening in the category. The first is the consumers shifting online. Uh and the second is that the consumers shifting towards um high efficacy scienceback products and those are two areas where we're leading.
And the third is that we've proven to be a brand scaling machine. So our first brand Ilmakage crossed 500 million of revenue last year. It's one of the largest beauty brands in the country. Our second brand, Spoiled Child, we think we'll get to 200 million of revenue this year. It's we only launched it three years ago.
We have a third brand that we affectionately call brand three right now which will launch later this year. It's a telealth platform for people with medical grade skin and body issues to start with but we're expanding into other medical domains after. We have a fourth brand that's on tap for 2026. So um our business is performing very very well.
We are incredibly bullish about the future right now. Um it's a time where we see a lot of companies playing defense. We're in the very fortunate uh position where we can continue to play offense. Our goal is to become one of the biggest beauty companies in the world and these are our objectives. Um so to take a step back and look at the numbers again and you guys saw impressive growth of 27% in revenue.
You also raised your outlook. Yeah. Which is not something we're hearing from a lot of companies right now. And in the statement um talk about tariffs being manageable. Y where are you guys sourcing from and what are you seeing in terms of that that tariff change? Yeah. So we we um have told the market that our objective um is to deliver sustained 20% revenue growth every year at a 20% um adjusted EBIT margin and of course this quarter we delivered significantly ahead of that and it's really a function of demand is very strong online for our
products um not just for people first making their first purchase with us uh but also our repeat is excellent. So, um, part of how we run our brands is to develop, um, very high quality brands with great products that she wants to keep coming back to over and over again. So, repeat has been a really strong driver for us and that's a very um, consistent part of our business.
As it relates to tariffs, we're really in the fortunate position, and we say this in our release, that it's going to be a manageable headwind for us. First of all, because we have high gross margins, we're a 70%ish gross margin um, business. Uh, we're guiding to 71% for the full year. they actually raised our gross margin guidance from 70% to 71%.
Um so starting with we have a favorable cost structure but also we just don't have that much exposure to um the most challenged areas. Most of our costs come out of Europe. Uh and so we also are doing a lot of things to mitigate the impact to our P&L. We have other cost efficiency programs happening internally.
But all in it's a very again manageable headwind for us this year will be a manageable headwind for us again next year. Do you expect to be raising prices? We're not planning on it. We don't think we need to and we don't plan to. So, you'll take it from the cost part of it. Yeah. Again, it's it's not a enormous um it's not a very material headwind for us and we have a lot of offsetting factors, so we don't think we'll need to.
Lindsay, thanks so much for your time today. Appreciate it. Great. Thanks, guys. Super micro computer providing a business update and preliminary financial results for the third quarter. company noting during the quarter some delayed customer platform decisions moved sales into the fourth quarter. Super Micro's preliminary results show net sales and earnings falling short of the street's expectations.
Gross margin for the third quarter also lower by 220 basis points compared to the second quarter primarily due to higher inventory reserves. Shares of Booking Holdings, they're falling after hours. A company reporting revenue for the first quarter that did beat analyst estimates that coming in at 4.76 billion up 7.9% year-over-year.
The CEO saying in the release that there is quote uncertainty in the market and Corvo top and fourth quarter earnings and adjusted revenue estimates. Company's first quarter earnings outlook falling short of expectations. However, Corvo's revenue outlook did top Wall Street's estimates. Corvo CO saying the company is focused on its operational objectives as it monitors ongoing macroeconomic factors.
Well, that is a wrap on today's ask for a trend. Be sure to come back tomorrow at 4:30 p.m. Eastern for all of the latest market moving stories affecting your wallet. Have a great night.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp