Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English (auto-generated)
Well, President Trump signed an executive order that will provide some tariff relief for the auto industry. For more, we're bringing in now Aaron Keading, executive analyst at Cox Automotive. Aaron, it is great to see you. So, Trump stepping in here, taking steps to soften the impact there of these auto tariffs.
It it was a bit complicated, Erin. I'm curious first just to start high level, your thoughts, your reaction. Yeah, I mean obviously he hasn't declared it officially through any kind of formal notice, but we've heard that it looks like there's going to be some content reduction or price offset for manufacturers that are actually assembling in the US um where they'll be able to offset 3.
75% of the price for parts that are foreign parts. So remember, there's a couple of different ways the tariffs are being applied. Some are if you have a completely uh assembled vehicle entering the country that's the 25% and then there are the vehicles that are assembled here but are going to be paying for automotive parts that are coming into the country to build those cars.
That's where he's looking to potentially offset some of the cost. But at 3.755% and then down to 2 and a half% next year and then gone in the third year. Uh we're not necessarily anticipating this to be a huge relief although any cuts to tariffs will count. So I I I was interested and you're kind of leading me there and I just if I was a CEO and I was running an auto company how I would be thinking about this whether I would be breathing some giant sigh of relief or would I be thinking okay I'm just going to listen I I I was thrown something I'll take it. Yeah. I
mean, I think right now they're going to be happy with anything that's thrown their way because it's a complicated um calculus that they're all having to do and anything certain, more importantly, anything certain, something that's going to be dictated and stays so that they can start to do some real financial planning around what might happen in the future.
Um I can imagine that they're happy about. But this particular break is again just on um the vehicles, the parts that are going into vehicles. Just keep in mind that there has been no mention about vehicles, parts that are coming into the country. That would perhaps be for those that need to repair their vehicles.
All of those parts still being imported would be theoretically hit with the full 25%. And that of course will matter to anyone who owns used vehicles or has a car that they might need to get repaired sometime soon. And then furthermore, there was some talk around not stacking. Well, theoretically, a car that's coming in fully assembled may not have been subjected to the stacking tariff of teal steel and aluminum either ways, you know.
So, there's not really a whole lot of give there either. So, it's a little bit confusing. I'm anxious to see how the president actually um builds out some of the holes that we have right now. Uh we expect him to do that around six o'clock tonight, but it's not overwhelming me with a lot of great news from a bottom line perspective. If I'm if I'm running one of these car companies, Aaron, I'm running GM.
I'm running Ford. Bottom line, am I bringing back more manufacturing here to the states? Because that of course is Trump's goal here, right? That's what he wants. Yeah. I mean, you know, we've said all along, every automaker has been heavily invested in the United States, and we expect that there are going to be more investments in the country.
It's one of the largest automotive markets in the world. Um, and we do anticipate that assembly might be more possible, quicker. um building up our parts supply chain here in the United States. That's a little tougher um to imagine that we would be able to reshore as many parts in manufacturing that could really offset this whole tariff um imposition here.
But should I expect to see more assembly coming into the United States? Sure. Um will it be again enough to really offset what the goals of the president really hopes to, you know, attempt by this? I'm I'm not sure that I think it's going to be um a wash, if you will. Aaron, I'm curious if you look at the American automakers for GM, Tesla, are there certain names that are that are more relatively well positioned against this tariff threat than others that are that are selling a lot of what they're making here, right? All right.
Well, so it's interesting you say Tesla because we do know that they are one of the most quote unquote Americanmade vehicles in the country, but their volume is relatively small considering that they only sell electric vehicles. And we know that they only currently make up about 8% of sales total electric vehicles total in the United States.
Ford certainly is a little bit more well positioned, we think. Um, you know, Stalantis just behind that, GM just behind that. You know, with GM specifically, we know there's some challenges because some of their more affordable, popular volume models are actually imported currently, but we do anticipate that they will, you know, make every effort to try to avoid having to put a lot of cost onto those particular models.
Um, especially given their popularity and where they sit within their portfolio. Um, and then, you know, we can't forget that Honda, Toyota, um, we have several foreign automakers, if you will, that have substantial uh, assembly plants here in the United States and are almost on par with some of our domestic automakers. Do you think those foreign car makers, Aaron, are are they going to bring even more? Would you expect them to bring even more manufacturing here? Uh, remain on Trump's good side? I mean, after all, I mean, they can't obviously ignore the
American market, right? Too big, too lucrative. Sure. They can't. No, they can't ignore it for sure. Um, and I do think that you might see some swapping out of production. We've already heard that, for instance, um, Hyundai is saying, "Okay, well, we're not going to necessarily put the Tucson that we need in Canada.
We're not going to pull them from our US supply. We're actually going to bring those over from Japan." I don't think that that means that now there is quote unquote more production happening. It just means that we might be transitioning those Tucson that were originally manufactured here to go into Canada might now stay here in the US.
Uh but again, I think every automaker has a vested interest in making sure that they can um cater to this market. The profitability in this market is uh is is arguable and they need to they can't ignore it. Um and we know that Nissan, for instance, is looking at pulling back pulling back up into operation more shifts so that they can get more vehicles going here in the United States.
So I think we'll absolutely see an increase in activity. Um, again, it's anyone's guess and it's probably a fiveyear time horizon before we really see what has moved the needle from a production coming to the United States uh, perspective. Aaron, so good to have you on the show today. Thanks so much for your time.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp