Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
Well, Amazon reporting first quarter earnings after the markets close on Thursday, but our next guest says there will be less focus on the first quarter results and more on the longer term outlook given those headwinds from tariffs. For more, we're bringing in Arun Sundam, senior equity research analyst at CFR research.
Arroun, it's good to see you. Before we get to the big earnings picture, I do want to ask you about some of those headlines today. The reporting that we were going to see the sort of tariff breakdown in some of uh Amazon's pricing, then Amazon saying no, we're not necessarily going to do that, but the White House pushing back.
I mean, what do you think is sort of the right way for Amazon and some other companies to to sort of approach this? Yeah. Yeah. Certainly an interesting day for Amazon. I think I think in my in my view I think the whole thing kind of got blown out of proportion um because of that that unconfirmed report that came out.
Then the White House came out with their statement and Amazon had to quickly respond back to it. Um you know I I don't think Amazon was ever considering breaking out tariffs or charges on their main e-commerce website. Um you know they did say they did say that too and they they said that these tariff charges were mainly for Amazon Hall which is essentially their timu sheen copycat website.
But um yeah, I I don't think big box retailers in general will will break out tariff search charges. One is because it's just a very complex calculation and it can it could be really messy. Um uh I think it's probably going to have more there probably more questions than answers if they did break out tariff search charges like why is this product uh have a higher tax versus this one? Um you know right now retailers are also trying to figure out who's going to you know absorb some of these tariff costs.
you know, some of it is going to no doubt be passed on to the consumer, but some of it's going to be absorbed by retailers, some of it's going to be absorbed by suppliers. So, how is that going to be calculated into the tariff search charge calculation? So, you know, I think it's I think it would be too messy.
It would probably hurt sales to be honest if they did break it out, too. So, um I don't think you'll see big box retailers um you know, take that route. So I'm just curious because it is, you know, it is the big question for Amazon or certainly a big question, you know, h how exactly when they're going to navigate this China tariff exposure.
I I did see the team over at Roth, they're telling their clients more than 30% of products sold on Amazon could be coming from China. And so I'm I'm just curious what will be Amazon's game plan? What is going to be Amazon's strategy to navigate that? Yeah. Yeah. I mean no doubt they have a significant portion of Chinese sellers, Chinese thirdparty sellers.
They don't they never disclose it um the exact percentage but it is known it is expected to be a sizable portion. Um the good thing is that I think you know ever since the first trade war back in 2018 2019 uh they did move significant portion of their of their sourcing or supplier base out of China into other other Asian markets like you know Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand, India places places like that.
Uh I think that's going to be beneficial too. um you know over the last five years or so Amazon's also um uh diversified their business in terms of um not just selling discretionary bigger ticket items but also more you know daily use consumables you know things like deodorant toothpaste paper towels things like that those products typically face less tariff risk as well so that's going to help them I think as well uh and third you know Amazon has a very large obviously a very large business a very a lot of many different suppliers they
also 60% of their e-commerce business is also thirdparty sellers and only 40% is their own um first party sales. So in in theory, you know, that 60% which which is the third party business, they Amazon generates a fee uh based off of fulfillment services and things like that.
So in theory, higher prices from third party sales could generate higher uh fee revenue for Amazon. So you know, I think there's a lot of, you know, pros and cons you have to weigh out before you determine whether you know tariffs are going to be fully bad or fully good. So it's a little bit it's a little bit complicated, I think, is the best way to say it. Yeah.
I mean I guess unless from the third party seller front unless people buy less stuff because it's more expensive. I mean and that goes for AWS as well. I want to ask about the implications there because you know if Amazon's clients if it's big enterprise clients are feeling the pinch from tariffs are they then going to not spend as much on AWS? Is that portion of their spending you know is that vulnerable in this case? Yeah.
So yeah, the way we kind of framed it is that you tariffs probably have a a bigger risk to Amazon's e-commerce business, but a broader macro slowdown because of tariffs have could have a negative implic implications to Amazon's AWS business as well as its advertising business. Um, so that's something that we're going to, you know, we'll we'll likely look to hear on the on the earnings call in a few days.
But yeah, we'll have to see. And I think right now the the commentary that we've been hearing from from Andy Jasse and even Amazon's shareholder letter that they released uh a few weeks ago sounded pretty upbeat in AWS. So I think expectations are high for AWS this year. Uh Amazon's also investing they're expected to invest over hundred billion dollars in capex this year.
Most of that it's going to be in in AWS and and AI investments. Um so we are pretty upbeat for AWS. because of that capex capex investments um there's a chance that AWS margins this year could be softer than than the previous year and I don't know if that's fully baked into to into the consensus estimates right now so that could be you know an area where we could see downside risk is that AWS margin line finally what about the advertising business you think uh think Amazon's able to gain advertising share yeah I mean because I mean if during a during
an economic slowdown you know you you want to allocate more of your advertising dollars to where people buy, you know, goods. And right now, there's, I think, only three retailers getting gaining the most amount of market share. It's it's Amazon, it's Walmart, and it's Costco.
And so, if you're an advertiser, you probably want to be advertising in one of those uh three three companies. Uh but at the same time is that many of Amazon's advertisers are third party sellers. So, if a lot of these Chinese third-party sellers are feeling uh the brunt of tariffs, uh then they could be advertising less and that could negatively impact Amazon's advertising business.
But at the same time also is that Amazon's also um uh just getting into to Prime Video ads. They they launched Prime Video ads last year. They're ramping it up this year. Uh and that's a you know increment that can be an incremental uh uh revenue stream for for Amazon. So again there's like a there's there's there's pluses and minuses in their in their ad business as well.
But and advertising is probably the most profitable business at Amazon, even more profitable than AWS. Um and and over the last few years that's been the fastest growing business for Amazon is is advertising. Um, so hopefully that continues to grow at a at a faster pace because that would only help overall overall margins at Amazon.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp