Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
Astroenica is on the move today after posting mixed results for the first quarter missing revenue estimates but beating on EPS. The pharmaceutical giant reiterating its 2025 guidance and says it's committed to investing in the US as the industry faces tariff threats from President Trump.
Joining me now we've got Pascal Soryat who is the Astroenica chief executive officer and Yahoo Finance senior health reporter Anelie Kemlani. Pascal, great to have you here with us this morning and thanks for taking the time. You're you're actually calling for no additional US levies on pharmaceuticals. What is the plan and and the analysis per Astroenica on that potential tariff threat? Brad and Madison, thank you for having me. It's pleasure to be with you.
Um we believe that uh the best way forward is to not charge uh tariffs on pharmaceuticals but uh create an environment that attracts investment through uh an attractive corporate tax rate. That's a general comment because as a company we have a very broad manufacturing uh footprint in the US. We have 11 manufacturing sites.
We manufacture small molecules, large molecules. We even have two large recent investments in cell therapy manufacturing. So we are relatively self-sufficient. The great majority of our products sold in the US are manufactured in the US. We actually export from the US. And there's a couple of products we still make in Europe and we are moving that manufacturing to the US very rapidly.
So we are not really affected by this in a great to a great extent. But certainly we believe that uh a great environment of you know supporting investment in R&D and uh creating a attractive tax environment would help attract investment. Pascal Angela here, good to see you again. And and you know, I've heard you say, especially on the call this morning, about the sort of lack of long-term impact here, but you've also been pushing a lot for the European regulators to pay attention and for governments to pay attention to this tariff move and its impact um really in
the continent. And so I wonder how does that uh you know really mix with your focus on moving to the US but then also as someone who is European looking at the local sort of domestic picture and why the push there rather than rely on those US exports. Yeah it's a really great question the I mean I think you've got to start from what are we trying to achieve as an industry.
We are here to uh come up with innovative medicines and in the last few years five to 10 years the innovation in our industry has exploded. There's a whole series of technologies that are bringing new medicines and make uh the day when we can cure some cancers not that far away. But to get there we have to have as many countries contributing to the global R&D effort.
And the problem we have is that a large a large part of our innovation effort in our industry is is actually funded by the US. So our view is that Europe has to allocate more funding uh to innovative pharmaceuticals. Um a greater share of their healthcare expenditures should go to innovative pharmaceuticals so that Europe allocate a greater share of their GDP to to this innovation.
Just like they have to allocate a greater share of their GDP to defense as well. Similar mechanisms. We have to have a rebalancing of investments and Europe has to contribute to this innovation effort. Uh and you know it can't be only the US funding it. Fair. And on that innovation point, I know that you're also in the obesity space.
I heard Arda say earlier that if you get your oral to phase two, you're going to start thinking about how to build out capacity. Is that an uncertain picture right now when it comes to US versus XUS market or are you looking at just focusing on the US right now when it comes to that? And as a follow-up to that also um does Fizer's removal from that race sort of give you momentum? Yeah, two great questions.
I mean, first of all, the the manufacturing part. We've been investing in manufacturing in the US, in China, and in Europe. Uh, but of course, the US is our number one priority because it's a larger market, lots of lots of unmet needs to to address and also a very strong innovation sector. Uh, so we will continue to invest in manufacturing, but also in R&D.
We have two very large R&D center one near Washington and one in Kendall Square in Boston in in Cambridge and Boston. So we will continue to make make those investments. In particular, we will invest in the US for the manufacturing at scale of our uh anti- of our obesity portfolio of products. So you know this will remain a great priority for us both from an R&D perspective but also uh from a manufacturing perspective.
Pascal you mentioned that pipeline as well here and I believe you talked about this on the call too. How as you're evaluating some of the rolloff of patents over the next few years here. How quickly do you expect some of those pipeline investments to be accretive to the business given the patent cliff that much of the industry faces over these next few years? It's a great question, Brad, but we don't have a lot of uh patent expireies over the next few years.
We have a couple of patent expireies that will affect us, of course, but we have enormous uh momentum in the rest of our portfolio of products. We have today more than 12 blockbusters. The blockbusters being defined as a product that sell for sells more than a billion dollars a year and they're all growing and we have new indications supporting their future growth.
We also have new molecular entities. This year we will have a large number of new clinical readouts, new products, new indications. So we believe by the end of this year people will be able to see investors will be able to see whether we are on track for 80 billion dollar sales by 2030. um because of the momentum they will see in our top line but also because of the delivery of our pipeline which so far has started very well.
We've had five successful phase three redouts so far this year in the matter of three and a half months. Astrogenica CEO Pascal Sora, thank you so much for taking the time here with us today.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp