Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English (auto-generated)
[Music] Drug maker Fizer posting mixed results for their first quarter as it announced plans for 1.2 billion dollars in cost cutting efforts. Sales for the quarter came in just shy of expectations. Fizer reaffirming its outlook for the full year but noting it has not factored in any potential impact from terrorists.
Here to discuss what these results mean for the drug maker, we've got Vomal Devon. He is Guggenheim security senior research analyst and managing director. VML, great to have you on here. So Fizer cutting costs while continuing to struggle for growth opportunities. Where does that leave you on this name? Yeah, it's been a tough one.
We have a buy rating on it. We do like the name longer term. We think that the expectations are very low and so we do think there's upside over time, but it's been a struggle for sure. Last year they delivered very good commercial performance, beaten numbers pretty handily. Stock didn't really react well and now it's faced a lot of pressure more recently with all the concerns around tariffs and the longerterm outlook. We do still like it.
We think there's value in the pipeline. Uh we think over time they can deliver upside to where current expectations are, but it's not going to happen today. I think today is pretty much like you mentioned a mixed quarter. It's just more costcut driven sort of upside uh and nothing to get people too excited about anything really changing in the near term.
It's still going to take some time. How does that potential tariff headwind kind of widen your forecast uh range as you're looking through what potentially could be incurred by Fizer and and the rest of the industry and how that would radically or materially at least change some of the expectations for their financial performance.
Yeah. So it's a it's obviously challenging for everyone right now to sort of predict the future. I think there's two sides where we see the potential risk. One would be on the actual COGS line, the expenses, paying for the tariffs. And then the other thing for a lot of these multinational pharmaceutical companies would be on the tax side.
Uh if there's changes to how they do their how they can utilize transfer pricing and lower some of their taxes based on their manufacturing and intellectual property being outside the United States. So Fiser see they have a 15% tax rate. I think it's not unrealistic to think that's going to go up over the next couple years maybe to 17 18%.
we see what we'll see what happens in terms of actual policy, but that's where we see the two biggest risks. So, multinational farmer companies like this see their cogs go up and then if your tax rates below the 21% rate right now, there's a pretty good chance that's going to go up in the next couple years as well. And regarding tariff policy and just uncertainty, obviously Fiser maintaining the 2025 outlook here.
To what extent do you have faith in its ability to bear fruit on that? Yeah, I think ultimately for all of these companies, it is about innovation and it's about the pipeline and driving that long-term growth. Even before all the tariff uh you know concerns started the the main concern that is that a lot of their core products are losing patent production and other ones are facing other challenges over the next few years and the pipeline needs to deliver that again is what's core to our thesis.
We do think they have some exciting things in the pipeline in the oncology space, some in the obesity metabolism space. Uh so those products are going to need to deliver. Last year we saw some of that. Uh we're going to see some more in the coming months here with some data releases. Those come through.
Again, we know the sales for the next couple years are not going to show significant growth. Uh that's the fact at this point, but this is a long-term business. Uh you start delivering on the pipeline, people are getting more optimistic on what it's going to look like in 2028, 2029, 30. And that's where I think the stock can start working maybe later this year into next year.
VMO, good to have you here with us today. Thanks so much for taking the time.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp