Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
Well, Convolt reporting earnings today beating on the top and bottom lines. And here to break down the report is Convolt CEO Sanjay Merchandonnani. Sanjay, it is good to see you. So, you report results. Your stock finished up nearly 2% in today's trade. Of course, your stock is also up about 70% over the past 12 months.
Sanjay, but walk us through the report, the results, what you're seeing in the business. Good to see you, Josh. Thanks for having me back. Um it was a good quarter Q4 for us and we beat across uh all all key metrics. Um you've got some of them up on screen and it topped off um a really good year for us. You know we what we do what we do at Convault is help customers be more resilient be you know with their data with their applications with their business and um there are different vectors that we protect them against and make them resilient with cyber being one
of them. And we're seeing good secular sort of tailwinds in the in the in the cyber resilience space. Um you know what used to be sort of an IT hallway conversation has moved into the seauite and we're talking to a lot of CEOs and and executives and boards about what it means to be resilient.
Our technology uh with our com cloud platform is leading in the space. Uh we make it really straightforward and and and give customers a good you know good platform to work with. Uh combine that with um something that we hold ourselves um accountable for which is great execution between our teams and our and our ecosystem.
Uh I think that sums up um the results that we're seeing. Sanjre, you know, in this in this environment right now, it's, you know, it's uneasy. It's there's uncertainty. There are, you know, CEOs and CFOs, Sanjay, who just say, "Listen, I'm going to not be able to give you guidance. I can't give you a forecast right now." You didn't do that.
You gave guidance. You gave a forecast. What gave you the confidence to do that? Well, you know, we what we you know, fundamentally what we what we do for customers really matters. I mean, there's there's no slowdown in in in cyber attacks in in the need for customers to be to be protected. It doesn't matter if you're a large enterprise or a small school.
I mean, this is this is this is pervasive. So, you know, we're we're staying close to our customers. We're staying close to our partners, understanding the pipeline, understanding the fact that this is important to them, what we provide. And so, you know, having validated the best we can given the circumstances, we felt that um what we put out was a was a was a was a fair guide.
So, given the backdrop that we find ourselves in with that uncertainty, Sanjay, I'm just curious, did you see signs of that in in the quarter, you know, in in your customers? Were they any more hesitant, Sanjay, than they may have been 6 months ago or 12 months ago? Honestly, Josh, no. But again, you know, we know what we know today.
We we had a great Q4. We brought in um we sort of broke our own internal records of of deal sizes whether they be small, medium or large what we consider large business. We landed new customers both our SAS platform and our and our on-remise capabilities grew. So we didn't see we didn't see any change. We're, you know, we're obviously like you, we're we're looking, we're talking to customers, we're trying to stay close to the pipeline, make sure it's good.
And at this point, um, you know, we feel, we feel like customers understand what they're they're getting into with with with the need for resilience and um, and hopefully it stays good. So, so no signs, you know, how this uncertainty has impacted your customers. I'm curious though, Sanjay, has it impacted how you want to run the company? Has it impacted investing, spending, headcount decisions? we actually, you know, look at the opportunity in front of us and it's a good time for us.
So we, you know, we we're not we're not changing course. Um we're also not directly affected by any conversations about about tariffs, for example, because we're a software company or SAS and and so we're, you know, we built a plan. We think that the demand is there. We think that we're executing well and our platform delivers what it's supposed to.
So we're actually you know we've got a business plan that we haven't really modified substantially one way or the other um in the in the past say 2 3 months and Sanjay you know we have any number of of smart economists who come on the show and some of them have said Sanjay they they do see the risks of of a recession in the US rising if the US economy did suffer a contraction that would mean what for convolt I mean it I'm going to I'm going to go on the on the single fundamental assumption that what we do is really
important to customers being down with a cyber attack, being, you know, not being able to conduct business probably costs more than than getting involved with us and get and getting our technology in in a timely way. Um, your guess is as good as mine. I am not an economist. Um, and I would just say to you that we stay close to our customers and we stay close to um our partners that that are working together with us and um and hopefully um hopefully we don't see that.
Finally, Sanjay, I know you know you bought a few companies since becoming CEO of Convolt. Are you on the hunt for more? You know, we we have a very good um R&D engine of our own. As a as a company, we've been we've been uh in business for 28 years and and have built most of our technology, but we have we have acquired a few few companies and um in the last year, we bought a company that really revolutionizes how you protect cloudnative applications and another one that does massive scale um data resets, data, you know, data recovery on on
Amazon uh AWS S3 uh capabilities. These have enhanced our our ability to deliver value to our customers and resilience. It's also increase our total addressable market in a very natural way. So anything we look at would be uh something that enhances our platform naturally and and very quickly can be a creative to our to our customers and and us. Sanjay, great to see you.
Great to have you on the show. Thank you for joining us, sir.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp