Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English (auto-generated)
[Music] Good morning everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the market open. We are going a bit earlier today because we've got SoFi that has just reported their earnings and we got a lot to talk about with SoFi. You got PayPal, you got GM, you got Fizer, you got Spotify. Um, you got a lot you got a lot of companies that are reporting right now.
So, we're going to get right into it. Uh, SoFi right here. Again, we'll get into the numbers. Before we get into the numbers, though, we got Nodto live right now. We got Nodto live right now. Let's get into it right here and then we will get into everything else that we got going on. Co Anthony Noto, it's great to see you.
I don't know if we've actually had the opportunity to talk in quite a while, but let's talk about these earnings. Let's talk about how you see this economy and what it means for your business. Yeah, we're really excited about the quarter. 2025 is off to a tremendous start. We grew revenue 33% year-over-year. That's an acceleration.
It's our fastest growth in five quarters to $771 million. It's really driven by great product innovation, strong branding leading to member growth of 34% year-over-year. It was the largest quarter we had in member ads at 800,000 and a 35% growth in products. So, our Cross Buy is really working at 32% of the products coming from Crossby.
Really strong profitability. Our EBA is up 46% um to $210 million also record and earnings were very strong. Um we feel like we're incredibly well positioned competitively. We're stepping on the gas. We're going to accelerate our rate of innovation, launch more products sooner, re-enter the crypto category, um, and really making sure we're staying in front of everyone else in our leadership position.
I love our competitive position and think right now with the with the environment we're in that we're seeing really strong demand from our members. We want to meet that demand. Let's talk about the lending business and then let's talk about the crypto business because I think um there's a lot of folks who are fascinated by both.
Why don't we hit crypto first? Where are you in that journey at this point? Well, the first thing I'd say is the regulatory environment is definitely evolving and it's going to allow us to re-enter being able to offer crypto coins in our invest product, the ability to buy, sell or hold cryptocurrency and we hope to be able to do that over the next 6 months or so.
Um, in our earnings call, we'll talk about the fact that over the next 6 to 24 months, we want to enter cryptocurrency and blockchain activities in a much broader and more significant way. Again, it's dependent on the involving regulatory environment, but so far that environment has been really positive. We want to be able to offer blockchain products and crypto products across every area that we're currently in.
So across lending, across paying, across uh investing uh and as well as protecting. We think it's a technology uh more than anything else. And we can use it to allow people to pay easier at a lower cost to pay faster and over time be able to capture some of the opportunity by providing infrastructure services to third parties via our technology platform.
So it really will cut across every element of our business. What is the what is the blockchain business and and crypto business in the lending space ultimately look like to you? Again, it's going to be subject to the regulatory environment. So, I just have to caveat that. But today, we provide margin loans in our investments where you can borrow money against your securities, against your assets.
We could do the same thing with cryptocurrency. If we custody the cryptocurrency, we can provide a secured loan against that currency. Um, again, a lower cost of of lending for our members just like margin loans are um, but an asset that they can borrow against just as they do their home or securities in our in their invest account. Right.
So, there's two things going on that I I know some investors may have some confusion about. So, there's there seems to be an effort at one level to move away from the sort of classic lending business to focus more on fee revenue. At the same time, there's been a huge growth in the lending or loan platform business.
And so can you explain the distinction for those who who are sort of trying to follow this company? Sure. Um the first thing is to understand our mission and our mission is to help people reach financial independence to realize their ambitions which means they get to the point that they have enough money to live their dreams, their American dream, have the size family they want, the size home they want, the career they want and live where they want and retire when they want.
In order to do that, we have to be there for everyone of their major financial decisions in their lives and the days in between. Which mean we really have to be across everything they do. borrow, save, spend, invest, and protect. So, we do have four great loans. We try to provide the fastest place to apply and the lowest interest rates.
Um, we have more demand for our loans than we can fulfill ourselves. So, some portion we'll do ourselves and some portion we'll do on behalf of third party. So, the loan platform business is really a feebased business where we leverage our origination platform, our marketing platform, our servicing platform to underwrite loans for other people like Blue Island Fortress.
Well, that's what I was say. You did this explain though because I don't I don't know if everyone knows you did this deal with Blue Owl which is one of the big credit providers in the country for worth about five$5 billion right how does that work yeah the way it works is they contract with us for a specific type of credit they want underwritten we go out and generate demand for that underlying loan we then fulfill that loan and they take the loan away from us within a couple of days so it's very capital light we don't retain
any credit risk and we don't retain any capital requirements u it's something that we're doing on their behalf that we would not otherwise do for ourselves either because we don't want that level of volume or that credit box. We actually turn down in a year over a hundred billion dollars of loan volume. We only fulfill about $20 billion ourselves.
So that over hundred billion dollars of loan volume other people would like to have. We focus on a high-end customer that's 680 and higher. Average FICO score around 750, average income around $150,000. But there are many of other people that have the need to invest in assets at a lower credit spectrum. and we're helping them do that in addition to some volume in our credit box that's above and beyond the volume we want to do.
So, it's a high margin revenue stream. It's feebased and it and it doesn't retain credit. What are you seeing in terms of the strength of the consumer? And I ask because there was a piece I think in the Wall Street Journal just this week, right? Uh about so many people using buy now pay later and and just putting more and more things on their credit card.
You're starting to see a credit build. There was a lending tree survey finding Americans are using more of these services than ever before. just for groceries and things. Anthony, sure. We're watching all the macroeconomic factors the way we would any other time of the uh cycle to make sure we have our early warning if there are problems.
So far, we've not seen any issues with credit. In fact, our credit performance continues to improve. Our del 90-day delinquencies improved again for the fifth quarter uh since last year in a row. We've also seen uh lower than expected net charge offs and an improvement there as well. So, the underlying credits doing well and the demand for loans are very strong.
We're also seeing strong spending in our SoFi money business. Uh we're annualized at about $14 billion of debit spending now. Um and it's growing faster than our underlying uh member growth there, which is about 46% growth. And our money product and spending is growing even faster. Deposits are growing faster as well at 52%.
And then in our invest business where you can buy, sell single stocks or fractional shares, IPOs, alternative assets, we had our strongest engagement quarter ever, even stronger than when we launched crypto or IPOs or alternative assets. um and saw an acceleration in our member growth there up 21% and we expect that acceleration to continue throughout the rest of the year.
So we guided the full year up in addition to beating we also guided second quarter above consensus. We feel great about where the business is. We're looking for all the data points everyone else is talking about but so far things have been pretty strong. Anthony, do you think that's because it's a reflection of your your members, a reflection of your clientele, or do you think that maybe some of those stories are being exaggerated about people um needing to borrow to pay for the groceries? I I think it's a little bit of both.
We definitely have a higherend customer, and the viewers should understand that we're going after a high income customer, $150,000 income or higher, high credit, 680 or higher. So, that's in our loan business, but our money business goes after everyone. um and our vest business goes after everyone. So, it is a reflection of the broader economy.
I do think people are looking for reasons not to be uh bullish here because of the uncertainty and believe me, I know how to be as bearish as anybody. And right now, we're not seeing the the changes. What would scare me is if we had uh unemployment get up into the high five or 6% range. We're not anywhere close to that today. Um but in an environment where we have declining rates, we're going to do incredibly well.
We're going to see a lot more home refinancing. We're going to see refinancing of student loans. And we're also going to see uh continued improvement in credit in that environment as long as we don't go into a deep recession or have some type of liquidity dislocation. A deep recession, liquidity dislocation would be really bad.
But right now, it seems like things are being managed pretty well. Anthony, great to see you, sir. Hope to see you in person soon. Congratulations on the results and a lot more to come. Thank you. All right, that was SoFi. Uh, Hems is going nuclear right now with a partnership with Novo Nordisk to expand affordable healthcare.
This will be a shock to a lot of you, but I did buy him yesterday at 2858. Uh, I was kind of peer pressured by a friend. So, I bought 100 shares at 2858. Uh, it's up 16%. I know HIMS is very volatile. It goes up, it goes down. I mean, this is one of the most volatile stocks ever in terms of partnerships, announcements, and the overall GLP part of the business.
But 3310 right now in the pre-market's up 16%. So, HIMS right here doing very well uh in the pre-markets. We'll see how that momentum continues to shake out. So, is up about 6% almost at 14. So, you just heard Nod right there sounded relatively bullish and we'll talk about Spotify and GM. Spotify really got hit badly by EPS.
I think there's a reason for that. And so we'll go through Spotify in a second, but Spotify is down about 8%. Um, was really the opposite of a Netflix type of quarter. 8.9% down here on Spotify. But SoFi getting some love right here, 1 cent away from 14. I mean, it looks like it's going to crack it in the pre-markets.
Up about 6% basically a triple beat and raise. And the question is now going to be um, does the market respect it? Does the market respected? So, what were the results on SoFi? Let's get started right here with the topline metrics. Uh, 6 cents versus three expected. So, you got a 50 50% beat on EPS. 772 million versus 739 million. That's about a 30 million beat on revenue. 800,000 new members.
Now, revenue growth, financial services up 100%. That's great. Lending up 25% year-over-year. That's great. The tech platform still not really growing. Up 10% year-over-year. is what most people need to get the momentum or most people think Sofi needs to get the momentum in terms of getting a hybrid tech multiple and that you know they're just not putting up the growth to see that yet but other parts of the business are growing and they're beating all the expectations by a hefty margin.
So a lot of people are thinking all right even if the tech platform is not uh solidifying it as a tech company should they be able to get the multiple for putting up techike growth especially in the other parts of the business. Anthony noticed said, "We are off to a tremendous start in 2025.
In Q1, we deliver durable growth and strong results driven by relentless focus on product innovation and brand building." He also said at the end of that interview uh and they increased guidance by 85 million for fiscal year 25 and EPS they increased by 2 cents. So they increased guidance again. He said in that interview that he's not bearish at all in terms of the economy and the macro environment.
The only way he would get bearish is if unemployment got up to the high 5% range. So right here above 14 now up 6.9% on the day. Hims, goodness gracious, dude. This thing is up 20%. So him's not having a bad day uh 3470 uh on this Novo Nordis partnership but but but SoFi right here if NTO is not feeling that bearish about the macro climate and the macro environment.
I mean, you got to imagine that they think that April has been a good month for them in terms of execution. And if they can have a good May and June, then Q2 should be a strong month as well or strong quarter as well, which uh I would imagine would be theoretically good for SoFi's stock. 1410 right here.
When we open in the markets or when we open at 9:30, either SoFi is going to dump or SoFi is going to build on this momentum. And if it builds on this momentum, I think either we hold the 7% or we try to inch up a little bit higher. If it tanks, it would be from people selling into the strength. Volume's already about a million shares in the pre-market.
So, we're gonna have to see how this plays out. Basent is speaking at 8:30, which is going to be a little bit challenging because uh SoFi has a call at 8:00 p.m. or sorry, 8 a.m. So, I don't know. Do we switch to Bent at 8:30? Do we keep listening to SoFi? Do I just put updates in the chat about what Bent is saying? Because whatever he says is probably going to have an effect on SoFi.
There's a world in which they announced their first trade partner today. That's why I think he's doing a press briefing. Maybe it's India, maybe it's not. Who knows? But we're gonna have to see what Bassen says at 8:30 and then keep going from there. Nate, what's up? Thank you for being here. Uh Nate is the reason the reason he's bragging right here and saying, "Hey, Mitt, you're welcome.
" is because he is the reason I bought uh HIMS yesterday. He's been begging me to buy this freaking stock for I would say about a year now. And yesterday, just to get him to like stop asking, I was like, "You know what? Fine. I'm gonna buy this thing. Uh, but I'm also no stranger to its volatility. I mean, like, this thing goes up and down like crazy.
And so, do I expect it? This was the buy order yesterday. Do I expect it to be up 21%? I mean, maybe. But the last time they announced a freaking partnership with Eli Liy, Eli Liy came out and said, "We don't even know who Hims is." They definitively denied it. I don't think that's going to happen this time because that was a rumor last time.
This time, Hims is actually putting up their own partnership. But, uh, yeah. Thanks, Nate. I'm up like 700 bucks in a day because of you. Kind of want to take some profits here. I'm not going to lie. 700 bucks is a lot of money. And I I don't know, dude. 23% feels a bit much for a simple partnership.
It just feels like people are buying in. But whatever. We're going to hold it. Yeah. Yeah. Look, even even he knows it'll be down 25% tomorrow, dude. Oh my gosh, dude. I I really want to sell this. I I I don't I mean, this thing is so volatile. I feel like taking profits here makes sense, but screw it. We're in this now. So, we're in this.
Let's let's just stay in. Uh, okay. So, SoFi, let's go deeper into their numbers right here. Up about 6.82%. Um, and then we'll get into some of the other companies that reported. So, uh, the biggest thing again on SoFi is that they're not growing the tech platform, and that's what I think people continue to be scared about.
Um, but everything else seems to be going pretty nicely. like it's not like it's a it's a scary level of of lack of growth in in other parts of the business. So, um even margins are at 27%. That's up quarter over quarter by about 1%. Not bad. You have financial services at 303 million which is up more than 100% year-over-year, which is nice.
The contribution margin on that is 49%. That's up from 31% uh a year ago, which is also pretty damn good. Uh and then you've got their overall member growth which was at 800,000 which was incredible as well. Now the tech platform growth I think uh yeah this this right here is what people are annoyed about.
So the net revenue is at 103 million. That's up 10% year-over-year. Contribution margin is actually down year-over-year by about 3%. It's at 30%. Um they get about 31 million off the tech platform versus uh 33 a year ago. So, you know, you got you got the tech. This slide right here is the reason I think the street is not giving it the type of multiple that a pounder gets or that a Robin Hood gets.
It's just not really that sort of juicy SAS reoccurring revenue business. But the other parts of the business are strong. Now, the loan platform again is, as Not said, a capital risk freeway or an asset risk-free way of of of not holding the loans on their balance sheet and still being able to make revenue off those loans.
He even said, "We get a hundred billion dollars of loan demand, but we are only able to accept 20 billion of it." So the other 80 billion, they see there's a massive opportunity to be able to put that on to other people and still be able to generate um revenue from it. But again, you know, I kind of agree with Steve on that question.
That's just not an exciting business that necessarily I think screams, hey, we're a tech platform. It's a it's a great business. It's an awesome thing and it should increase their their their overall growth, but it's not like, oh my gosh, this is like, you know, the next big thing. It's not or at least as of now I don't see it as the AIP for SoFi but maybe that's up to not to really communicate that it can be at the end of the day they got to grow this tech platform or they got to have another way to have a broader narrative on the thesis of the company right now
and I think uh if every company that's in tech has a narrative that's associated to the qualitative aspect of its valuation along with the tech growth to support that qualitative aspect so far right here is lacking a bit of that narrative and that story that AWS of fintech theoretically was that story, but that's not there.
So, um, yeah, I mean, look, it was a good quarter. It was not a bad quarter. It was just not the quarter that I think might be narrative changing, but let's wait for the call. We're going to see what the call ends up saying. So, right here, up 4.9%. Dude, why is him up 30 freaking%. My goodness, it's really making me want to sell, bro. Like 30% in a day.
I'll take that. That's a nice little 820 bucks. But I feel like if I'm gonna own him, I should just be used to the volatility at this point and just hold the damn thing. So yeah, I don't think Nate's selling. Are any of you guys selling Hims? Are you selling this thing? Goodness gracious, dude.
One thing I will say for him, as I've been looking a little bit more at the numbers, uh cuz I bought it last night, so I was like, you know, let me look at the numbers. It's cheap. It is definitely freaking cheap. I mean, I can't deny compared to other stocks when you look at their valuation, their growth, market cap of six billion kind of feels like a joke.
The only way you would uh discount that market cap if is if you think they don't have a moat, which is a fair bare case, but like I don't know. I I think the you know, at the end of the day, investors pay for growth. And uh the way I think you establish a moat is you keep growing, right? Because if you can keep growing, no one can say you don't have a moat because you're growing, which means you are beating the competition.
And the whole point of emote is that you can do something other people can't do or you can just do it way better than other people can do it. And HIMS is putting up the growth even without GLP. Like this is not a GLP story. This is that's just like a nice little catalyst to the overall narrative, but HIMS is definitely a definition of a stock that has a bunch of narratives.
It might not be the most exciting narrative to people. But uh in regards to the overall healthcare space, there is a narrative right there. 3720 on HIMS in the pre-market so right here up 5.23%. Spotify down 7.94%. Spotify did not do the best. We'll talk more about Spotify. Let me get uh some updates on the HIMS partnership.
I think they released a press release uh with Novo Nordisk as their partner. So, let's see what they said. Um yes, here it is. Okay. So, let's read from this. Let's read from this. And yeah, Bay Ray is a good point. Their short float is at 30%. So, uh, squeezing can be very possible when it comes to any piece of good news that gets the shorts to cover, which also could get us up 30%. Okay.
Novo, Nordisk, and HIMS today announced a long-term collaboration designed to make proven obesity care and treatments more accessible, more affordable, and more connected for millions of Americans. As a first step, Americans can now access NGOare pharmacy directly through the HIMS and HHS platform with a bundled offering to all those to all of the doses of strengths of the GOI and HIMS membership which includes access to 247 care.
The companies are also developing a roadmap that combines Novo Nordisk innovative treatments with HIMS and hers ability to scale access to quality care. Uh Dunham says we're excited to work with Novo, a company known for breakthrough innovation in clinical medicine and strong portfolio of medications. Bringing our teams together and continuing to explore our shared commitment and focus on delivering the future of healthcare has been inspiring.
We share a vision of what is consumer- centered healthcare looks like and this is just the first step towards delivering that future future. Novver says we are pleased that Hims and hers is making this offering available to the people that are living with obesity. Beyond this initial collaboration, the companies are developing a roadmap that combines Novo Nordisk's innovative medications with HIMS's ability to deliver access to quality care at scale.
So basically, HIMS is the distribution. Novo has the actual um pharmaceuticals with the goal of improving long-term outcomes for people living with chronic disease and doing that more affordably. Yeah, it makes sense. It makes sense. I mean, this is kind of a no-brainer in terms of them partnering together.
And I think that's another reason people are excited about HIMS is that they are a young company that's finding a way to work with all the big dogs in the space and really prove their value uh from a distribution perspective. And as a result, uh they're building on top of that momentum and the market's rewarding them for this right now up 30% along with the fact that it sold short 30%.
So that probably is playing a catalyst right here uh as well. Thoughts on PayPal? Okay, so let's talk let's talk about PayPal. So if you're just joining SoFi up about 5%, tripleB raised guidance. Uh we're going to get the call in about 15 minutes. Uh PayPal's down 3%. So PayPal, unfortunately, this is uh a really sad story because I just don't think anyone believes in this company anymore.
And the buybacks are not really doing what I think the market thought they would do or what PayPal thought it would do. Uh revenue is a beat by one or missed by 1%. EPS is a beat by 15%. So that's a nice beat on EPS 133 by versus 116. Stocks down 3%. EPS is up 23% year-over-year. But then look at the revenue growth.
It's up 1% year-over-year. I mean I I don't know if you can grow 1% year-over-year. I don't care how undervalued you are. 1% year-over-year is like where's my dividend then? Because I'm not investing for a growth stock at that point. And you can't tell me the buybacks are going to be the story. Like the story should be I get a yield off the company.
And I think Steve's idea of saying take the buyback money and turn it into a dividend instead just gets the narrative on PayPal as a stock that you can get some some some guaranteed yield off of to be more acceptable. And so it seems like that's why it's down 3%. Now, we'll pull up their guidance and see what they have to say.
That might be another reason why it's down, but obviously it's getting hit. Yes, it's growing more than Tesla, which is hilarious compared to But again, Tesla is Tesla. PayPal is PayPal, right? There's just a difference in terms of the potential there. And so, I think the lack of revenue growth is the issue right here.
Alex Chris says, "Payal has had a great start to the year and our strategy is working. This is our fifth consecutive quarter of profitable growth with progress across brand to check out PSP, omni channel, and Venmo. We are transforming into the leading commerce platform connecting consumers and merchants globally. Our foundation is solid and we have multiple ways to win.
Revenue is up 1%. GAP operating income increased 31%. Operating margin expanded 447 basis points which is actually a good thing. And then EPS increased 56% 129 versus 133. That was a beat by 5% or 13% on estimates. Total payment volume was up 3% to 47 billion. Payment transaction decreased 7% to 6 billion.
This might be the argument that people are saying, "Hey, payments are getting competitive with Apple Pay and all the other um competitors that are out there. Robin Hood's credit card, right? There's so many different ways you can pay for stuff." And you got transactions decreasing 7%, which is not the best. Wow, look at this.
Transactions per active account also decreased 1%. I know 1% is a small decrease, but that's just not growth anymore. if overall transactions and then transactions per active account decreased and then active accounts increased but the overall uh uh uh volume of payments decreased. Yeah. I mean you got people kind of going back to that narrative that hey maybe there's just too much competition with Cash App and Robin Hood and Apple Pay and so many other Visa obviously American Express so many different ways that people can pay
for things. They have 15 billion in cash. They can definitely give a dividend if they wanted to. Debt is about 12.6 billion and they returned about 1.5 billion by by repurching 19 million shares. So they bought 19 million shares this quarter. Over the past quarter they bought or over the past year 12 months they bought 86 million shares.
It's pretty inca incredible dude. That's a lot of buybacks but that is not enough to get the street excited on why they should buy the stock. A lot of times stocks trade on narratives and it's and sometimes the narratives can become a lot more important than the valuations and that can lead to very expensive stocks.
But I'd rather have a stock with a narrative versus a stock without a narrative. And if you have the narrative and the growth like a pounder and a Robin Hood, then you really got something special. And that's where the multiples can get pretty strong. Grab, by the way, is up about 1%. I will be live at 7:30 p.m. Eastern for Grab.
It's going to be a long day for me. Grabs earnings calls I think at 8 PM. So, um I'm expecting a beat and raise on Grab and I'm expecting uh some more momentum. Uh Mark Mahaney from Evercore reiterated his $8 price target today on Grab. So, he continues to be bullish. I am pretty bullish.
You know, maybe this is a quarter where they sandbag again and the market doesn't like it. Maybe their eBay margins aren't that good, but uh I do think that they can get some momentum and so we'll see later today what Grab can do and what numbers they can put up. All right, Spotify right here. Why is Spotify down 7%.
Well, Spotify missed pretty aggressively in terms of overall numbers. I I still don't know why they missed this bad, but they missed EPS by 54%. They missed EPS by 54%. 122 versus 266. Uh I think this has to do with the fact that their operating margins were down because of the money they're paying to podcasters in their new monetization adshare program.
So now people can make money off their podcast on Spotify, which is great for creators, but obviously that could hurt Spotify's margins. And I guess it was just a really big hit to their margins by about 54%. That's my my thesis. I still have to go deeper into the numbers, but that's why I think they missed. Revenue was also a very slight miss at 4.
7 versus 4.8. Spotify has been a stock that has worked very I mean it's up like 5 6x from the uh 2022 lows and they've beaten every quarter on user growth and and uh members and premium subscribers but um it's just not enough for the street. So total monthly active users 678 million that's up 10% year-over-year.
Uh premium subs 268 ad supported users 423 that's up 12% and 9%. Uh revenue 4.1 billion that's up 15% year-over-year. Gross profit 1.3 that you can see that margin right there 31.6. 6 versus 32.2. I think that's actually what's affecting their EPS margins as well. Operating income margins were up a little bit, 12.1 versus 11.2.
And then free cash flow 534 versus 877 last quarter. So that's up 158% year-over-year, but that's down 40% uh quarter over quarter. And that also could be having a hit on the margins as well. So, I mean, look, I think that that narrative about Spotify being recession resistant like Netflix, I think that narrative is still real.
It's just this quarter had some numbers that weren't the best, and it is what it is. Sometimes you're not going to have the best numbers. Uh, but I think overall, if you're a Spotify long, like this quarter is not a red flag or anything to to change the thesis on Spotify. We got GM earnings as well. Let me look to GM right here.
They missed on Wall Street expectations. Let's pull them. Uh let's get their results right here. Is out with its earnings and we'll see what's happening. In the first quarter, the company earning 278 a share. The street was expecting 274 revenue coming in slightly better than expected at 44.02 billion about a billion dollars uh more than was expected.
all-in adjusted EBIT of 3.549 billion better than uh the estimate of 3.42 billion. The adjusted margin is 7.9%. For North America, GM made 3.28 billion. That's less than the first quarter of last year when they made 3.84 billion and they brought in about $45 million from China. That's an improvement compared to just an awful couple of years in China.
And remember, they took that huge write down and charge last year. I think what several billion dollars. So they made $45 million in the first quarter in China as they restructure that business. Average transaction price $50,700. That's up about $1,000 per vehicle compared to the same quarter a year ago.
And here's the news that people will be focused on. General Motors is reassessing its 2025 guidance due to the potential impact of tariffs. There will be an impact. They just don't know to what degree. And as a result, they are not sticking by the guidance that they gave in January for 2025. And they are now reassessing, that's the word they're using, their guidance on tariffs.
We should get more details regarding how General Motors sees the landscape, especially in North America with regard to tariffs when the company does its conference call, not today, but on Thursday. And we'll talk about why in just a little bit. We'll also have a first on CNBC interview with General Motor CEO, chair, and CEO Mary Bar.
That all right, so GM, uh, not a horrible quarter, not an amazing quarter. GM stock right here is where we at down about 2%. Nothing too crazy. Wow, dude. Hims 40%. My goodness. Um, kind of want to sell. I'm not going to lie. I really want to take my 40% in a day. Feels a bit unsustainable, but I'm not going to sell.
I'm going to keep this damn thing, but I want to. Um, I don't know. Is anyone else selling? I mean, what are you guys doing? What? This is This is kind of wild, dude. Holy crap. This is what happens when you have a narrative to your stock, bro. And when it's sold short, you know, it's not horrible. Um, like this is pretty aggressive. Nothing will hold with that type of hype, dude. That's what I'm think.
Is this going to really hold? Like, real. It's [ __ ] $42. Like, I'm up, 1300, dude. Come on. $1,300 is a lot of money. Oh my gosh, dude. This is ridiculous. This is ridiculous. Dude, who's selling? Let me do a poll. Who's selling their hymns? Who is selling hymns? But then again, what if it's what if it's what if it what if it keeps going higher? You guys know that meme? What's that meme where the Oh, I need to have a folder where I can save these memes.
There's this meme where like the the thing I don't even know what it's called, but there's this like character that's holding a character and then they're bringing the character back and then the the the thing is like oh I'm up 100%. But what if it goes higher and like what if it just keeps going higher, right? It's like the classic. Oh my gosh, dude.
I want to sell this thing. This is like is it really going to hold 42 freaking percent, dude? Come on. 40% like holy crap. But if it's squeezing, if it's squeezing. Um, wow. 54% of you said sold. I mean, I can't blame you. I can't blame you on this. Now it's up 47%. My goodness, dude. Like, realistically, could this end the day up 47%.
I mean, last time I saw that was when Hims was making his run to 70. Or when the markets open in an hour, does this thing just immediately gap back down to 28? I I I think it's going to dump at open at open as well, dude. Oh my gosh. I don't know, dude. This is like this is it's one of those it's I thought you was longterm.
No, but I bought him just because of just for just for fun realistic. I mean, I didn't really do any due diligence on this. I just had a friend who kept asking me to to buy this thing, so I bought it. The thing is, it would have to tank 40% now. 45% to get back to normal, which is fair. That could happen. Um, uh, oh, we got the notto call in three minutes.
I don't know, dude. I don't know. It's going to dump and opens, but not going back to 28. Yeah, that's fair. I think that's also true. Like, if it dumps at open, it's not it's not going back to 28, but it might dump back to like 35, which is I mean, look, the the the one argument against selling is that if it's able to uh to to to pump this easily, then eventually it's going to pump there again.
And so it's a question of do you want the profits right now or do you want it later in the future even if right now it's unsustainable. Now if it falls below 28 then I think it's like yeah it's probably something that would be a nice little swing trade but this is not insider trading bro I bought it for because I have a friend who's obsessed with this company and he said to buy because it's cheap and I looked at the financial like all right it's kind of cheap whatever and I bought it.
I I can literally show the the text from last time the group chat. I was like, "Fine, I'll buy the stupid shit." But I don't know if it holds up to this thing. Where is the call on not? Let me see if I pull this up. So webcast. All right, it's starting in two minutes. Starting in two minutes. Dude, this is kind of ridiculous.
56% of you are saying you sold. I don't know, man. 1,200o All right, screw it. I think I'm selling. I think I'm selling. I'm selling. Screw it. This is a 40% gain in a day. Kind of feel like it's unsustainable. Screw it. We're selling. If it goes higher, it goes higher. Whatever. Boom. It's done. We got out at 40. We got out at 40.
We got out at 40. We'll get back in eventually. And if we don't, it is what it is. We'll get back in eventually and if we don't, it is what it is. 40% in a day, bro. I'll take it. 40% in a day. I'll take it. I'll take I mean, come on, bro. Like, at some level, if it keeps pumping, then congrats to the Hims bulls. It keeps pumping.
But 40% in freaking less than 24 hours. Like, at some level, if it's not a stock I'm super long on, I think I got to take that. That's like a great trade there. There's no way I can I got to be that greedy. So, there you go. All right. Cool. All right. Not bad. Not bad. We got got a nice trade on soy. Where are on him? Where is this call, bro? Why isn't it popping up? It's not showing up on my thing.
Uh why don't they just do it on YouTube, dude? Every every company should do their call on YouTube. That's so much easier. Dude, look at this. It's not opening. It's not opening. Yeah. I think I'm gonna buy I'm gonna buy Grab with the I'm I'm gonna buy Grab with the with the profits.
And look, it says something went wrong. Please try again later. Why don't they just do it on YouTube, bro? Like, that's just so much easier. Um, let me see. Let me see. Let me see. Webcast. Let's see if I can get it here. All right. So, if you sold HIMS, congrats. We're either going to see this thing keep pumping or maybe it was a good sell and we come back to 28.
And if it comes back to 28, I'll buy again. But um we'll see what happens. Okay, I'm trying to get the call. Give me one second. The thing's being really weird. Things is being weird. Verify email. yada yada. Uh okay, let me log in. Okay. Do I have it? Do I have it? Okay, I got it. All right, here we go. Here we go. So call it. Here we go.
Anthony Nodto, CEO, and Chris Le Point, CFO. You can find the presentation accompanying our earnings release on the investor relations section of our website. Unless otherwise stated, we'll be referring to adjusted results for the first quarter of 2025 versus the first quarter of 2024.
Our remarks today will include forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations and forecasts and involve risks and uncertainties. These statements include, but are not limited to our competitive advantage and strategy, macroeconomic conditions and outlook, future products and services, and future business and financial performance.
Our GAP consolidated income statement and all reconciliations can be found in today's earnings release in the subsequent 10Q filing which will be made available next month. Our actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause these results to differ materially are described in today's press release and our subsequent filings made with the SEC, including our upcoming form 10Q.
Any forward-looking statements that we make on this call are based on assumptions as of today. We undertake no obligation to update these statements as a result of new information or future events. And now I'd like to turn the call over to Anthony. Thank you and good morning everyone. We're off to a tremendous start in 2025 as we continue to drive durable growth and strong returns through our product innovation and brand building.
Our battle tested strategy and diverse business were instrumental in driving an acceleration in revenue growth to 33% and a 3x year-over-year increase in earnings. I'll begin by covering our key results for the first quarter. Starting with our durable growth, which continues to be driven by exceptional growth in members and products.
We added a record 800,000 new members in Q1, driving 34% year-over-year growth, reaching 10.9 million SoFi members. We also added 1.2 million new products, representing 35% year-over-year growth to over 15.9 million products. Our strong member and product growth powered great revenue growth in the first quarter. Adjusted net revenue was a record at $771 million, up 33% year-over-year.
This is our highest growth rate in five quarters. Together, our financial services and technology platform segments generated $47 million of revenue, up 66% year-over-year. In our lending segment, adjusted net revenue grew 27% year-over-year to $412 million, driven by strong originations in the segment of $5.
7 billion, up 30% from the prior year. Combined with $1.6 6 billion of origination in the loan platform business in Q1. Originations reached a record of $7.2 billion. Total feebased revenue across our business was also a quarterly record at $315 million, up 67% from the prior year. This was driven by strong performance from our loan platform business origination revenue fees, referral revenue, interchange revenue, and brokerage fee revenue.
On an annualized basis, we are now generating nearly 1.3 billion of feebased revenue, reflecting the deliberate diversification of our business towards more capital revenue streams. In addition to delivering strong, durable growth, we delivered strong returns and profitability in the first quarter. All three segments delivered strong contribution profit at attractive margins.
Adjusted EVA for the quarter was a record $210 million up 46% year-over-year. Our adjusted EVA margin for the quarter was 27%. Our incremental EBID margin was 35% as we continue to reinvest in the business to drive long-term growth and profitability. Net income was $71 million at a margin of 9%. Earnings per share were 6 cents.
Finally, our tangible book value ended the quarter at $5.1 billion, a year-over-year increase of $946 million. Our strong financial performance is the direct result of our continued investments in brand building and product innovation. These investments attract new members and clients into our digital one-stop shop ecosystem and lead them to adopt more products over time.
This virtual cycle, which we call our financial services productivity loop or FSPL, fuels our growth and ultimately our returns as we scale. In addition to product growth, we also measure the effectiveness of our productivity loop and the success of our strategy based on crossby. And crossby continues to be very strong.
In the first quarter, 32% of new products were opened by existing SoFi members. Let me take a moment to discuss some of our recent investments in brand building and product innovation across our businesses. A significant amount of our marketing investment goes towards building the SoFi brand name via broadscale high reach branded marketing.
This investment is centered on building SoFi into a trusted household brand name which we measure based on unaded brand awareness. Having a strong brand creates a halo effect that makes our performance marketing of each product more efficient. Our unaded brand awareness continued to be very strong through the quarter at 7%.
During the first quarter, we completed the inaugural season of TEL presented by SoFi, a new techdriven stadium golf league with 14 of the top 25 golfers in the world, including Rory Maroy and Tiger Woods. TGL presented by SoFi attracted over 20 million total viewers on ESPN in its inaugural season. Since the SoFi brand goes everywhere the TJL brand goes, we capitalized on not just the broadcast audience reach that exceeded our expectations, but also the massive social presence as well as the exciting gameplay.
We launched a promotion for SoFi Invest tied to players performance during the playoffs. This onair and online integrated marketing effort helped drive record engagement levels for SoFi Invest. We also continue to benefit from Sofi Stadium as well as the continuity of our branding with the NBA and key sports ambassadors in Windham Clark, Cameron Brink, Jason Tatum, and of course the OG SoFi partner athlete Justin Herbert.
Additionally, we became the presenting partner of the Country Music Association's CMA Fest. This is our first ever music partnership and an incredible platform to introduce more people to SoFi through the live event, broadcast, and social media channels. This partnership will also allow us to enhance the fan experience for SoFi Plus members through exclusive perks.
Turning now to product innovation in our segments. Financial services is our fastest growing segment, doubling its revenue year-over-year to over $300 million. I'll touch on a few of the most significant contributions to this growth. Starting with our SoFi money business. To scale this business as rapidly as we have, we've invested significant capital to build the strong operational and regulatory capabilities that are required to have a nationally regulated bank with insured deposits as well as earned the trust of our members.
The investment, while not always obvious externally, has been transformational for our business. We have grown annualized debit spending to over $14 billion, just one of our high margin feebased revenue streams. We've also grown our total deposits to 27.3 billion, lowering our funding expense by an estimated $515 million per year.
Along the way, we've more than tripled our money product since the end of 2021 to nearly 5.5 million today by offering an unmatched value proposition with a high APY, P2P payments, bill pay, autopilot, vaults, zel, two-day early paycheck, $3 million of FDIC insurance, and unmatched rewards for checking and savings accounts, and so much more.
Even with the success of Sofi Money, we are continuously finding ways to improve the member experience. For example, this quarter we completed the rollout of self-service wires, which gives members another frictionless way to move money. We are now the only company that offers digital person-toperson payments via phone number or email address and the ability to send money via zel, a self-s serve wires.
Given the performance of SoFi Money, we expect it to become our second billiond dollar revenue business. Another key contributor to growth in financial services is our loan platform business where we produce loans on behalf of third parties. In less than a year, we've grown the business to an annualized run rate of over $6 billion of originations and more than $380 million of additional high margin, high return feebased revenue.
And we continue to see strong demand for these loans. This year, we finalized a $5 billion deal with Blue Owl, a $2 billion extension with Fortress, and a $1.2 billion joint venture between Fortress and Edge Focus. These additional deals will accelerate the quarterly originations well above the current level of $1.6 billion.
Importantly, the LPB loans do not present any ongoing credit risk and contribute to member growth as we hold the relationship and can benefit from crossbite into other SoFi products. So far, the vast majority of our LPB loans have been within our prime credit box, but over and above the volume we want to put on our balance sheet.
However, we have the ability to also meet demand from buyers who want near prime loans. With higher WAC, we can even extend this program to other loan types in the future. We are incredibly optimistic about the depth and breadth of the growth opportunities in the loan platform business and we see it becoming our third billion dollar revenue business.
Turning to SoFi Invest in January, we shared that we are accelerating our investment in SoFi Invest and that decision is already bearing fruit. Q1 2025 marked an acceleration in product growth to 2.7 million products up 21% year-over-year and we expect further acceleration in invest product growth throughout the year.
The first quarter also marked our best quarter ever of member engagement even compared to when we offered cryptocurrency or launched IPOs and alternative assets. In the first quarter, we made significant improvements to our single stock presentations, which provide members with insights to help make more informed investment decisions.
Our new experience is clearer, easier to navigate, and more informative, driving positive feedback, and importantly, an increase in engagement. We also made it easier to roll over 401k assets with a more intuitive design and stronger back-end engineering, which improves completion rates and provides another great way to build long-term durable relationships with members.
We continue to expand on our unmatched selection, including investment opportunities that have been typically reserved for the high net wealth segment. Following our highly successful SPV for SpaceX last year, we've expanded our partnership with Templum so members can invest in another privately held company, Anthropic. We're also accelerating our product investment to improve the Invest user experience and drive more personalization as well as better discovery of our Invest product offerings within our app.
We want to ensure that members are aware of all we have to offer and are getting valuable insights and information that are tailored to their specific needs. The more we service our great investment selection, the more engagement we see. So, Invest stands alone in the breadth of our offering, including the ability to buy and sell single stocks without commissions or fees.
Our award-winning robo advisory product that offers three different themes with a total of 15 unique strategies, four SoFi branded ETFs that are specifically tailored to our members needs, IPOs, and level two options. We are also providing access to alternative assets including private equity, private credit, private real estate, venture capital, long short hedge funds, and private individual company investments.
We continue to add more selection and by the end of the year, if all goes as planned, we will add both level one options and certain crypto or blockchain offerings. Given the evolving regulatory landscape, we see an opportunity to re-enter the crypto and blockchain business more comprehensively. In addition to enabling members to invest in crypto coins, we will enter other areas over the next 6 to 24 months, but potentially much sooner via acquisition or if the changing regulatory landscape allows.
Our aspirations over time are as broad and deep as they are for our existing SoFi business, including developing crypto and blockchain offerings across borrowing, investing, paying, saving, and our technology platform services for third parties. Turning to our tech platform segment here, the market for digitally native financial product platform is significant and continues to evolve.
Recognizing the longer lead times associated with large-scale core banking conversions and consolidation among smaller fintech clients, we found innovative ways to broaden our client base. For example, this quarter we launched a firstofits-kind reward debit program with Windham Hotels and Resorts. Later this year, we expect to launch similar co-brand debit card programs with other travel and hospitality companies, further expanding our footprint among consumer brands, and we recently signed a deal with Merkantil Banko, which offers personal and
business banking services in Panama and will use our cyber bank digital banking platform. We are pleased with the demand from new client opportunities for the tech platform business and expect these wins and others in the RFP process to have an impact on our revenue in 2026 and beyond.
Now turning to our lending segment starting with our home loans business. Our 2023 acquisition of Windom Mortgage strengthened our technology and fulfillment capabilities creating significant capacity for growth in Q1. This helps us grow home loan originations by 54%. At the same time, we've expanded to offer home equity loans a great value to members given the fact that they are sitting on low rate mortgages that they do not want to touch in a higher rate environment.
This product, which we didn't have a year ago, accounted for more than onethird of our home lending volume during the first quarter. It was our best quarter ever for home equity originations and should only go higher from here. As interest rates come down, we expect in our planning for a significant acceleration in the demand for home loans for both home purchase and refinance.
We're also launching new personal loan and student loan refinancing products. The new personal loan product launching next month will be for prime credit card customers that carry revolving balance and are making mostly interestonly payments. These are commonly referred to as revolvers. Members will now get a fairly priced deal instead of being gouged by credit card companies and big banks who charge 20 plus% interest to earn an ROE of 50% on some of these prime credit revolvers.
We will meaningfully cut the cost of debt for this prime borrower, reducing monthly payments by as much as 40%. While generating an attractive target ROE in line with the 30% that we generate on our broader personal loan portfolio. So, all you premium credit card holders out there that somehow found yourself with 10 to $30,000 or more of debt on your credit card that you're now only making minimum payments on, we are here to help get rid of that debt and get your money right.
In the midst of uncertainty around student loan options in the market, we just launched an innovative member- centric refinancing solution known as Smart Start. This allows for lower payments in the early part of the loan and steps up into paying regular payments after this introductory period, helping members find their footing and build long-term savings.
Yet another way we innovate to help our members spend less than they make and invest the rest. Let me wrap up the discussion on our results, branding, and product innovation with a perspective on SoFi Relay and SoFi Plus. Both products make their footprint bigger than their foot and are critical elements of our financial services productivity loop.
SoFi Relay allows members to easily track and manage all their SoFi and non-sofi financial products and accounts on our digital platform through an easy to use dashboard. Relay is our second largest product at 5 million which is up 41% year-over-year. Although relay doesn't generate revenue directly, it is a lightweight starting point and serves as the tip of the sword with very attractive crossbite patterns into other SoFi products.
As an example of relay's impact, onethird of the relay first members that cross by adopt at least three products with the most common sequence being relay to money to invest. Turning to SoFi Plus, our premium membership tier that brings together the best of all we have to offer through America's most rewarding financial membership, unlocking over $1,000 in value each year.
Previously, members needed a direct deposit with us to be a SoFi Plus member, but during the first quarter, we added a feebased subscription option as well. While this option is new, we are already seeing some promising behaviors among early subscribers. Nearly 90% of the new plus members were already existing members, demonstrating the validation of making this product more accessible via a pay option, not just via direct deposit.
The product has also been a catalyst for our FSPL, driving the second order effects of crossby among these members with nearly 30% adopting an additional product within 30 days of enrollment. Among SoFi Plus subscribers who are completely new to Sofi, over 75% adopt at least a second product and over 40% adopt a third product within 30 days of enrollment.
Importantly, these members are adopting products across our platform beyond just SoFi money. This data demonstrates that members truly value the one-stop shop model. And by exposing members to our complete offering, we can accelerate Crossbot. Hopefully, it is as clear to you as it is to me that our strategy continues to deliver great results.
That is why we have decided to further accelerate our rate of innovation while still being able to increase our fullear guidance. Our value proposition has never been more relevant to the members and clients we serve. We are stepping on the gas to launch new products faster and iterate to improve our existing products at an even more rapid pace.
The opportunity in front of us is too massive to risk underinvesting to capture it. I'll be back after Chris covers the detailed financial results and guidance. So, spend a few more minutes talking about this important topic and the strength of our competitive position. Thank you, Anthony.
It has been a strong start to the year as we continue to drive durable growth and strong returns. We exceeded each metric that we guided to during our last call on the way to delivering accelerating revenue growth in our sixth consecutive profitable quarter. For the quarter, revenue grew 33% year-over-year to a record $771 million.
Adjusted EVIDA was also a record at $210 million and a margin of 27%. Net income was $71 million at a margin of 9%. And earnings per share was 6 cents. This included a small benefit of about a penny related to a lower thanex expected effective tax rate. An important driver of the acceleration of growth was the increased contribution from Capital Light non- lending as well as feebased revenue sources.
Our non- lending businesses generated $47 million of revenue up 66% year-over-year. And we also generated record feebased revenue across all businesses of $315 million, up 67% year-over-year. Turning now to our segment performance in terms of financial services for the first quarter, net revenue was $33 million, more than double that of Q1 2024.
Contribution profit was $148 million, up 4x from last year. Contribution margin was 49% almost double what it was last year. Net interest income for this segment was $173 million, up 45% year-over-year, which was primarily driven by growth in member deposits. Non-interest income grew 3.2x to $130 million in the quarter, which equates to over half a billion dollars in highquality feebased income on an annualized basis.
Importantly, improved modernization continues its strong contribution to revenue growth. Financial services revenue per product increased from $59 in the first quarter of 24 to $88 in the first quarter of 25. That's up nearly 50% and we see continued upside as newer products mature. In Q1, our loan platform business generated $96 million in adjusted net revenue, up 44% from just last quarter.
Of this, $93 million was driven by the $1.6 billion of personal loans originated on behalf of third parties as well as referrals. I would note that these originations were up 41% quarter-over-arter, while the associated platform fees increased approximately 50% reflecting stronger monetization within this business. Additionally, LPB generated $3 million from servicing cash flow, which is recorded in our lending segment.
The growth opportunity for this business continues to be strong. On the heels of launching our $5 billion partnership with Blue Owl Capital in Q1, we are pleased to have recently secured an additional $3.2 billion through a one-year $2 billion extension with Fortress and a two-year $1.2 2 billion agreement with a joint venture between Fortress and Edge Focus.
These partnerships continue to demonstrate the attractiveness of our loan production to investors. In addition to our LPB revenue, we continue to see healthy growth in interchange, up 90% year-over-year, driven by close to 16 billion in total annualized spend in the quarter across money and credit card. Shifting to our tech platform, for the first quarter, we delivered net revenue of $103 million, up 10% year-over-year.
Contribution profit was $31 million at a contribution margin of 30%. Revenue growth was driven by continued monetization of existing clients along with new deals signed in new client segments. We saw a slight decrease in accounts to 158 million or 6% year-over-year while revenue still grew 10% year-over-year with similar growth in potential acceleration in Q2.
This was driven by a large client's decision last year to diversify their processing providers which was factored into our outlook for 2025. We continue to diversify our client base by winning new business and we expect these wins to drive financial performance and an offset in 2026. Turning now to our lending segment.
For the first quarter, adjusted net revenue was $412 million, up 27% from the same period last year. Contribution profit was $239 million with a 58% contribution margin. These strong results were primarily driven by growth in net interest income, which increased 35% year-over-year to $361 million. During the last quarter, we had record total loan originations of $7.
2 billion, up 66% year-over-year. Personal loan originations were a record at $5.5 billion, of which $1.6 billion was originated on behalf of third parties through LPB. In total, personal loan originations were up 69% year-over-year. Student loan originations were $1.2 billion, up 59% from the same period last year.
Home loan originations were $518 million, a 54% year-over-year increase. Capital markets activity was very strong in the first quarter. We sold and transferred to our loan platform business $3.1 billion of personal and home loans. In terms of personal loans, we closed $1.1 billion of sales in whole loan form at a blended execution of 106.2%.
All deals had similar structures to other recent personal loan sales with cash proceeds at or nearpar and the majority of the premium consisting of contractual servicing fees that are capitalized. These sales included a small loss share provision that is above our base assumption of losses and immaterial relative to the exposure we would have otherwise had if we had held on to the loans.
Additionally, we sold $90 million of late stage delinquent personal loans. By selling these loans, we're able to generate positive incremental value over time versus selling after they charge off, both from our improved recovery capabilities and by maintaining servicing. In terms of home loan sales, we closed $322 million at a blended execution of 102.1%.
In addition to our personal and home loan sales, we executed a $698 million securization of loans originated through our loan platform business. This was the first securization of new collateral in our SoFi consumer loan program or SCP since 2021 and the first using collateral originated in the loan platform business.
Importantly, this channel provides our partners with meaningful liquidity to support their ongoing investment in the loan platform business. The transaction priced at an industryleading cost of funds levels with a weighted average spread of 87 basis points and an all-in yield of 5.10. 10%. Turning to credit performance, the health of our consumer remains strong despite the market volatility.
We are not seeing signs of weakness. Our personal loan borrowers have a weighted average income of $158,000 and a weighted average FICO score of 743. While our student loan borrowers have a weighted average income of $134,000 with a weighted average FICO score of 769. Our credit trends continue to be strong after seeing delinquencies peak one year ago in the first quarter of 2024.
For personal loans, the onbalance sheet 90-day delinquency rate was 46 basis points in the quarter, a decrease of nine basis points sequentially. The annualized charge off rate also declined to 3.31% versus 3.37% in the prior quarter. Had we not sold any late stage delinquencies, we estimate that including recoveries between 90 and 120 days delinquent, we would have had an all-in annualized net charge off rate for personal loans of approximately 4.
8% versus 4.9% last quarter. For student loans, the onbalance sheet 90-day delinquency rate was in line with last quarter at 13 basis points, while our annualized charge off rate decreased 15 basis points to 47 basis points. The data continues to support our 7 to 8% maximum life alone loss assumption for personal loans in line with our underwriting tolerance.
Although we continue to trend below these levels, our recent vintages originated from Q4 2022 to Q2 2024 have net cumulative losses of 4.09% with 43% unpaid principal balance remaining. This is well below the 5.53% observed at the same point in time for the 2017 vintage, the last vintage that approached our 7 to 8% tolerance.
The gap between the newer cohort curve and the 2017 cohort curve widened by a more favorable 16 basis points after widening improvements of 15 basis points in Q4. Additionally, looking at our Q1 2020 through Q4 2024 originations, 59% of principal has already been paid down with 6.7% in net cumitive losses.
Therefore, for life alone losses on this entire cohort of loans to reach 8%, the charge off rate on the remaining 41% of unpaid principal would need to be approximately 10%. This would be well above past levels, further underscoring our confidence in achieving loss rates below our 8% tolerance. Turning to our fair value marks and key assumptions.
As a reminder, we mark our loans at fair value each quarter, which considers a number of factors including the weighted average coupon, the constant default rate, the conditional prepayment rate, and the discount rate comprised of benchmark rates and spreads. At the end of the first quarter, our personal loans were marked at 105.
5%, up 55 basis points from the end of the prior quarter. This change was primarily a function of the discount rate decreasing by 42 basis points to 4.87% due to the underlying benchmark rate decreasing by 34 basis points and spreads tightening by eight basis points. As we've previously noted, both of these changes are empirical based on actual market data, not assumptions.
Additionally, any fair value impacts that resulted from interest rates increasing were offset nearly one for one by hedge losses. Additionally, the annual default rate decreased by 18 basis points. Slightly offsetting these impacts was a 14 basis point decrease in the weighted average coupon and a 52 basis point increase in our conditional prepayment rate.
When a borrower prepays, we are still capturing the principal and the impact to the value of the asset is only based on the premium above par at a given point in time, which is very small relative to the principal outstanding. At the end of the first quarter, our student loans were marked at 105.2% 2% up 107 basis points from the end of the prior quarter.
This change was a function of the discount rate decreasing by 18 basis points to 4.22% driven by the underlying benchmark rate decreasing by 38 basis points partially offset by 20 basis points of spread widening and a 10 basis point increase in the weighted average coupon. There were no material changes to the annual default rate or the conditional prepayment rate.
Turning to our balance sheet, in the first quarter, total assets grew by $ 1.5 billion, driven by $1.6 billion of loan growth and approximately $265 million of growth in cash, cash equivalents, and investment securities, partially offset by a reduction in other assets. Total companywide cash at quarter end was $2.
7 billion. On the liability side, member deposits grew by $2.2 2 billion for the quarter, bringing total deposits to over 27 billion. Net interest margin was 6.01% for the quarter, up 10 basis points sequentially, reflecting our ability to sustain healthy deposit versus lending betas. This included a 27 basis point decrease in cost of funds, which was partially offset by a 13 basis point decrease in average yields.
We continue to expect a healthy net interest margin above 5% for the foreseeable future. In terms of our regulatory capital ratios, we remain very well capitalized. Our total capital ratio of 15.5% at quarter end remains comfortably above the regulatory minimum of 10.5%. Tangible book value grew more than $167 million sequentially to 5.
1 billion. and tangible book value per share at quarter end is $4.58 up from $3.90 a year ago. Let me finish by providing our revised outlook for 2025. Given our strong start to the year, we continue to expect to add over 2.8 million members, which represents at least 28% year-over-year growth. We now expect adjusted net revenue of 3.
235 to 3.310 billion above our prior guidance of 3.2 2 to3.275 billion. This equates to year-over-year growth of approximately 24 to 27% an increase from our prior guide of 23 to 26%. We now expect an adjusted EVITA of $875 to $895 million above our prior guidance of $845 to $865 million. This represents a 27% margin.
We now expect adjusted net income in the range of 320 to $330 million above our prior guidance of $285 to $35 million and adjusted EPS of 27 to 28 cents above our prior guidance of 25 to 27. We now expect growth in tangible book value of 585 to $600 million for the year above our prior guidance of 550 to $575 million. For the second quarter of 2025, assuming credit spreads are in line with the range we've observed year-to- date, we expect to deliver adjusted net revenue of 785 to $85 million, adjusted EVITA of $200 to $210 million, adjusted net
income of $60 to $70 million, and adjusted EPS of 5 to6 cents. Overall, it's been a strong start to 2025, and we're looking forward to a great year overall. I'll hand it back to Anthony to wrap us up and kick off the Q&A. Thank you, Chris. As I mentioned, our strategy and execution continue to deliver excellent results.
The opportunity in front of us remains massive, and we are accelerating our investment in new product launches. We are building from a position of strength as the only digital company to successfully scale members and revenue across five lending businesses, a world-class SoFi money offering with 27 billion in total deposits and invest in credit card offerings with 2.
7 million products and over 300,000 card holders respectively. At the same time, we're incubating and beginning to scale our SoFi Protect offering across home, auto, and life insurance, lending, and checking products for small and medium businesses, and of course, our recently launched SoFi Plus product with the best value in a financial services subscription offering.
Additionally, we have seen tremendous scale and indirect value creation from SoFi Relay with over 5.1 million products. Despite all of that success, we built an entirely new loan platform business in less than 12 months, generating a 380 million annualized high margin fee revenue stream. And of course, our technology platform business serving over 158 million accounts and over 8 billion annualized transactions while helping power the SoFi products.
Make no mistake, within each business, we have or will have superior speed, capabilities, and services when compared side by side to alternative offerings as product quality is critical to being a member centric company. But having great products is not enough. We must also have a sustainable competitive advantage.
In that regard, we believe our unique strategy, the combination of our businesses and how we have architected our products results in building a sustainable competitive advantage and having the highest lifetime value per member. Our highest lifetime value is built on the back of striving to have superior unit economics on a per product basis combined with significantly lower cost and more products and revenue per member such that we can provide more value in each product and more value when they are used together. And we can do this better
than anyone else. Specifically, our competitive advantage allows us to offer superior and even one day unmatchable value to our members and the broadest selection of loans with the best interest rates, superior APY and deposits, the best value in a financial service subscription product in SoFi Plus, the broadest selection and invest products and competitive matches on invest rollovers.
A fully comprehensive suite of products all in one device which is necessary to get your money right. as well as SoFi rewards across all of our products and services, free financial planning with the CFP, discounted travel offerings, and other spend better offers. Additionally, we provide free services like Relay, Autopilot, Vaults, Zel, and P2P.
And finally, several new AIdriven products in development that will specifically show our members how to get their money right by spending less than they make and investing the rest. like the SoFi ExpensArt and SoFi Cash Coach, just to name a few. In total, SoFi's unmatched value across its products and services make it the best place to help members achieve the most critical factors in their financial life, which is how to spend less than they make and invest the rest in order to get their money right and realize their ambitions. All that we
do must serve this simple but hard to achieve equation better than anyone else. Hopefully, our leadership position as a one-stop shop in our competitive advantage with the highest lifetime value is clear. All right, I'm switching to descent. Partisan take it down act passed the house last night. This important legislation was championed and guided through Congress by our wonderful first lady Melania Trump, including through her direct advocacy on behalf of survivors during her passage the the passage efforts. The Take It Down Act
criminalizes the publication of non-consensual imtate imagery and requires social media and similar websites to remove such content within 48 hours of notice from a victim. The first lady thanks all those who voted in favor of this important legislation and the president looks forward to signing it when it arrives on his desk.
Today officially marks 100 days of promises made and promises kept by President Trump. This has truly been the most historic start to a presidency in American history. After building the greatest economy in the world in his first term as president, President Trump is in the process of doing that all over again.
The American people trust in President Trump. Since his first day in office, President Trump has focused on defeating the Biden inflation crisis, bringing down the cost of living, and making the United States the best place in the world to do business, invest, create jobs, and innovate. And President Trump's efforts are working. 345,000 jobs have already been added since the start of President Trump's term.
Last month's jobs report saw nearly 100,000 more jobs than economists predicted and it was the fourth highest month for private payroll growth in the past two years. 9,000 manufacturing jobs have been added to the economy already. This is a sharp contrast to the 6,000 manufacturing jobs that were lost each month in the final two years of the Biden administration.
The US employment rate rate remains at historic lows. And thanks to President Trump, Americans are seeing price relief for the first time in years. The last inflation report showed the first consumer price decline since the COVID pandemic, a decrease in energy prices and real average hourly wage growth. President Trump is delivering on his promises to lower costs for American families and businesses.
Prices across the board for everyday goods have seen decline since this president was inaugurated. From airfare to used motor vehicles to pres prescription drugs, prices are dropping. In fact, last month's drop in the price of prescription drugs was the largest ever recorded. And after Joe Biden botched the response to the bird flu, President Trump and Secretary Rollins aggressive plan have brought down wholesale egg prices more than 50% from inauguration day.
President Trump ended Joe Biden's reckless war on American energy and fossil fuels and has restored American energy dominance. And Secretary Wright, Secretary Doug Bergam are working hard on that effort every single day. Oil and gas prices are now way down because of this bold approach. Gasoline prices down 7%. Energy down.
Energy prices are also down as well. The Department of Interior just announced a new offshore drilling policy that will boost oil production in the Gulf of America by 100,000 barrels per day. On the deregulation front, President Trump is committed to cutting senseless red tape, especially for America's small business owners, who are the backbone of our economy.
We know cutting regulation leads to lower costs and higher growth. The mass deregulation effort by this administration will help usher in the golden age of America which is underway. Immediately upon taking office, President Trump blocked all of the unifi unfalized Biden era rules, saving America's more than 100 billion dollars or 2100 per family of four over the next decade.
And the president also launched a bold multi- agency effort to roll back existing federal regulations that drive up the cost of living on hardworking families. This effort is projected to yield significant cost savings in the coming months, including the EPA's roll back of tailpipe emission rules for light duty and medium duty vehicles and the Department of Transportation's latest corporate average fuel economy standards.
These two efforts alone yield $755 billion in total savings or more than 8,800 per family of four over the next decade. In total, the combined savings from all of these act actions equal just over 935 billion or nearly 11,000 in real savings per family of four per the coming decade. The press is not talking nearly enough about the positive impact of President Trump's deregulation campaign, and investments from the biggest companies and countries in the world are pouring in under this president.
So far, total investment commitments under the Trump administration have reached more than5 trillion dollars, including 500 billion from Apple and US-based manufacturing and training, 500 billion from Nvidia and AI infrastructure, 100 billion from TSMC and US-based chips manufacturing, and the $500 billion private investment by OpenAI, Oracle, and SoftBank in AI infrastructure as well.
All of these investment commitments are estimated to generate at least 451,000 new highpaying jobs for American workers and families. At this point, President Trump has secured more investments in the United States of America in 100 days than Joe Biden did in four years. President Trump is America's businessman chief, and that's why these trillions of dollars in investments are flooding to our country.
The business community is bullish on America because President Trump is back in charge. Tomorrow, the president will host CEOs and leaders from several companies that have made these investments to tout their historic commitments to our country and encourage others to follow suit. Under President Trump, there has never been a better time to invest in America.
And the president finally said enough is enough and refused to allow America and our workers to be ripped off any longer on trade. President Trump implemented powerful tariffs to end the era of economic surrender and to rebalance America's trading agreements. More than 100 countries have already come to the table looking to offer more favorable terms for America and our people.
There has never been a president who has created his own leverage like this president. And we are just getting started. Republicans in Congress are getting very close to passing President Trump's one big beautiful bill which will include the largest tax cuts in American history. strong border security measures, major military advancements, dramatic deregulation, and common sense spending reforms.
As President Trump has said before, the best is yet to come. For more on President Trump's economic successes so far and the plans ahead, I want to pass it off to our incredible Treasury Secretary, Scott Bessett, who is here today, and we will open it up to questions. In our new media seat, we have Brendan Peterson, the financial services reporter for Punch Bowl News.
Punch Bowl News covers power, people, and politics based in Washington DC. Laser focus on Capitol Hill, the politics of legislating. Founded in 2021, and it is the first newsletter that Capitol Hill and the White House reads every morning in the middle of the day and throughout the evening. Thanks for being here with us and we'll start with you today.
Um, thanks so much for being here. I have a question for Secretary Bessen. Um on tariffs, uh the president said over the weekend that we are hoping that maybe tariff revenues could replace income tax. Um but we also keep hearing about the deals the administration is pursuing. So my question is what is the White House's ultimate object objective here? Do you want to have long-term tariff revenue or deals that might reduce those tariffs? I think it's a combination of both.
So, we're going to take in long-term tariff revenue. We put a process in place. We have 18 important trading relationships. Uh we will be speaking to all of those partners or at least 17 of them. They over the next few weeks. Many of them have already come to Washington. Uh what President Trump is referring to is the ability for tariff revenue to give income tax relief.
And I think there's a very good chance that we will see this in the upcoming tax bill. The president campaigned on no tax on tips, the no tax on social security, no tax on overtime, and the restoring interest deductibility for autos for Americanmade autos. So, uh, tariff income could be used for tax relief on all those immediately.
So you think that there is a role for significant tariff revenue in US fiscal policy? Uh I I think that it is something that got put away a long time ago and I think that tariffs uh will bring back American manufacturing and generate substantial revenues. On manufacturing, we've seen some pretty grizzly surveys this month from the Philly Fed, um, which saw the biggest drop since May of 2020, and the Dallas Fed, similar plunging outlook, poor shipping orders.
What are American manufacturers not understanding about your push for onoring in the US? Well, I I think it I was in the investment business 35 years and I learned to ignore the survey data and look or the surveys, look at the actual data and the actual data has been quite good. The job data is good. Americans keep spending and as Caroline said, we have these incredible commitments to bring manufacturing back on shore with record uh investment by domestic corporations and foreigners who want to come into the US.
Thank you so much, Caroline. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The Chinese continue to say that the US and China are not engaged in any consultation or negotiation on tariffs. You've recently said you've talked to your counterpart, but more about quote traditional things like financial stability. So, can you clarify is the administration talking to Beijing specifically about tariffs or not? Well, we're not going to talk about who's talking to whom, but I think that, you know, over time we will see that the chi Chinese tariffs are unsustainable
for China. I've saw I've seen some very large numbers over the past few days to show if these numbers stay on, Chinese could lose 10 million jobs very quickly and even if there is a drop in the tariffs that they could lose 5 million jobs. So remember that we are the deficit country. They sell almost five times more goods to us than we sell to them.
So the onus will be on them to the uh take off these tariffs. They're unsustainable for them and they are saying you guys are not talking about it. So is that true? Uh look, they have a different form of government. They're playing to a different audience. So, I'm not going to get into uh the the nitty-gritty again of who's talking to whom.
Uh but as I said, I believe for the Chinese, uh these tariffs are unsustainable. And very quickly, two days ago, you said you didn't know if President Trump had spoken to Xi Jinping. Do you know now? Again, I would say Caroline and I have a lot of jobs around the White House running the switchboard in one of them. Go ahead. Secretary Bon, thank you so much for being here this morning.
Um you've talked about the importance of giving investors certainty um when it comes to the market. Yet the Trump administration is is continuing to negotiate several complex trade deals in a very sort of compressed time frame. When do you when do you expect you'll be able to give the market some certainty around those deals? Do you have a deadline? Is it the 90-day pause? What are we looking at here? Good question.
And I I think one thing that has been a little disconcerting for the markets is you know President Trump creates what I would call strategic uncertainty in the negotiations. So he is more concerned about getting the best possible trade deals the for the American people. You know we had four years of bad deals for decades the of unfair trading and we are going to the unwind those and make them fair.
What we are doing is we've created a process. I think the aperture of uncertainty will be narrowing and as we start moving forward announcing deals then there will be certainty but you know it's certainty is not necessarily a good thing in negotiating. Mr. Secretary, last night there there were reports on the administration sort of walking back a little bit on the auto tariffs.
Can you sort of just elaborate on that decision there and what we can expect going going forward and why sort of the shift in this auto chair? Well, President Trump has had meetings with both domestic and for excuse me, foreign auto producers and he's committed to bringing back auto production to the US. So, we want to give the automakers a path to do that uh quickly, efficiently, and create as many jobs as possible.
Jasmine, thank you so much, Caroline. Thank you, Secretary. Back on China, does the administration anticipate anticipate supply chain shocks or supply shocks coming um now that cargo shipments from China are significantly down? And if so, are there being plans or are there plans uh in the process of how to address that? I I wouldn't think that we would have supply chain shocks and I think retailers, they have managed their inventory in in front of this.
You know, I I speak to dozens of companies sometimes daily. They but definitely weekly and uh they know that President Trump is committed to fair trade and have planned accordingly. And a second question, can you outline the timeline for when you think some of these deals particularly with your Asian countries like India, Japan, South Korea, uh you may have an announcement? I I'm glad you brought up our Asian trading partners and allies.
uh they have been uh the most forthcoming in terms of doing the deals. As I mentioned, Vice President Vance was in India last week. I think that he and Modi made some very good progress. So, I could see some announcements on India. I could see the contours of a deal with the Republic of Korea coming together and then we've had substantial talks with the Japanese.
Andrea, Secretary Bessan, just uh continuing on the path of the sort of like progress. You said last or yesterday, I think that it was could happen as early as this week or possibly next week. Can you give us a bit of a timetable? And then um I wanted to ask about South Korea specifically. They've said that they probably won't be able to make a comprehensive deal until early July because of their elections.
Japan also has elections. And to what extent are domestic factors complicating your efforts? Canada just had an election. You know, are you are you seeing that you might have to think about delaying the 90 days? Well, I I I would actually take the opposite tact that I think the from our talks that these governments actually want to have the framework of a trade deal done before they go into elections to show that they have successfully negotiated with the United States.
So we are finding that they are actually much more keen to come to the table, get this done and then go home and campaign on it. Sean, was there I'm sorry. Did you have a comment on whether it's going to something could happen this week or next week for for a deal? You know you said yesterday I again I think that we are very close on India and uh in India uh just a little inside baseball India in a funny way uh is easier to negotiate with than many other countries because they have very high tariffs and lots of tariffs.
So it's much easier to confront the direct tariffs when uh as we go through these unfair trade deals that have been put in over decades that the non-tariff trade barriers can be much more insidious and also harder to detect. So a country like India which has the you know posted and ready tariffs is much easier to negotiate with them.
So you know I think the India negotiations are moving well. Sean. Hi, Mr. Secretary. Um, so it was reported this morning that Amazon will soon display a little number next to the price of each product that shows how much the Trump tariffs are adding to the cost of each product. So, isn't that a perfect crystal clear demonstration that it's the American consumer and not China who is going to have to pay for these policies? I will uh take this since I just got off the phone with the president about Amazon's announcement.
Uh this is a hostile and political act by Amazon. Why didn't Amazon do this when the Biden administration hiked inflation to the highest level in 40 years? And I would also add that uh it's not a surprise because as Reuters recently wrote um Amazon Amazon has partnered with a Chinese propaganda arm. So this is another reason why Americans should buy American.
It's another reason why we are onshoring critical supply chains here at home to shore up our own critical supply chain uh and boost our own manufacturing here. Is Jeff Bezos still a Trump supporter? Uh look, I will not speak to the president's uh relationships with uh Jeff Bezos, but I will tell you that this is certainly a hostile and political action by Amazon.
And Secretary, if you have anything to add? Yeah, I I would also add that the bring bringing down the the terrible Biden inflation has been a priority for the first 100 days of the Trump administration and President Trump has done a great job of leading that uh since January 20th. Uh interest rates, mortgage rates are down.
Uh gasoline and energy prices are down. We're expecting the further decreases and as Caroline said uh the big tax on consumers that goes unnoticed is deregulation or regulation and we are deregulating and bringing that down. So you know from a household income point of view we would expect real purchasing increases that we've seen them over the first 100 days and we would expect that to accelerate.
We we are doing peace deals, trade deals, tax deals, and deregulating. And the deregulation is a longer lead time, but I think by the third and fourth quarters, that's really going to kick in. Thank you, Caroline. A question for you and Secretary Bess. We talk a lot about volatility uncertaining the marketplace, and the president has stated all along that he's more concerned about mainstream America, the American worker.
You just talked about deregulation and this entire fair trade and reciprocals. What is your message to the American people uh in terms of letting them get through this disturbance and the outcome being greater and a greater good for the American worker, the American people, the American families.
I would say trust in President Trump. Uh there is a reason he was reelected to this office. It's because of the historic success of his economic formula in the first term. As I laid out at the beginning of the briefing and the secretary has talked about and the president talks about every day, there's a proven formula that works.
Massive deregulation, uh, energy independence and tax cuts which are coming and the secretary is working very hard on that with our counterparts on Capitol Hill. Uh, if you want to talk about that, that's a huge deal to put more money back into the pockets of hardworking Americans. As for the fair trade deals the president is trying to negotiate, he's not just writing the wrong of the mess that he inherited from the past four years of the Biden administration, this is a mess that has been created for the past four decades that has sold out the middle class that
has moved jobs overseas. You think about our heartland, middle America, what towns used to look like, what they look like today. President Trump wants to restore the golden age and it's a process to do that and that process is underway. But he's put together a fantastic trade team. Secretary Besson, Secretary Lutnik, Jameson Greer, all working incredibly hard on this effort 247, but tax cuts are coming and that's key. And Mr.
Secretary, why don't you talk a little bit about that? Yep. So, it's really it's really a three-legged stool in the economic policy. It it's trade the its tax and its deregulation. So, we are in the midst of addressing, as Caroline said, these long-term trade imbalances. uh the tax uh bill is going much better than I would have thought when I the uh took office on January 28th and that's through President Trump's leadership that Speaker Johnson leader Thun are united uh Speaker Johnson we had a very good meeting yesterday uh with something called the
big six NEC director Kevin Hasset myself speaker Johnson leader thun uh committee chairman Jason Smith and Senator Crapo. And the tax bill is moving forward. It is going to give permanence to the 2017 tax cuts and job act, which will back to the question on certainty. It will give American business certainty.
It will give American people certainty. And then President Trump is also adding the things for working Americans that is talked about earlier. No tax on tips, no tax on overtime, no tax on social security, making auto payments deductible. So that will substantially address the affordability crisis. And you know the other thing that I would note and back to data is that the Vanguard, one of the largest money management firms in America, said that over the past 100 days, 97% of Americans haven't done a trade. And in fact,
individual investors have held tight while institutional investors have panicked. So in individual investors trust in in individual the investors trust President Trump. Megan in the back. Thank you. Can you detail for us exactly what we should expect as far as relief on the auto tariff front? And then further, Mr.
Secretary, should we expect other industries to also get relief the way we've now seen for auto and tech as well? I I'm not going to go into the details the of the uh auto tariff relief, but I can tell you that it will go substantially toward reshoring American auto manufacturing. And uh again, the goal here is to bring back the high quality industrial jobs to the US.
President Trump is interested in the jobs of the future, not the jobs of the past. You know, we we don't need to necessarily have a booming textile industry like where I grew up again, but we do want to have precision manufacturing and bring that back. And you know, another important very important function of this that does not get talked about enough is national security.
President Trump the his overriding the concern and belief is that economic security is national security. National security is economic security and we saw during co that our supply chains got cut off and we need to bring back a lot of those supply chains whether it's in semiconductors medicines the steel and we have to onshore those.
So, it's a combination of making trade free and fair and remedying this gaping national security hole that he was left with. And if I could on I would just add Megan, the president will sign the executive order on auto tariffs later today and we will release it as we always do. Go ahead.
Secretary, any negotiation with the European Union and is it hard to negotiate with the European Union? Pardon? Do you have any updates on the negotiation with the European Union? the I I'm more involved the in the Asian negotiations. My observation would be goes all the way back to Henry Kissinger's statement. When I call Europe, who do I call? So, we're negotiating with a lot of different interests.
Uh some of the European countries have put on an unfair digital service tax on our big internet provider. France and Italy, other countries, Germany and Poland don't have that. So we we want to see that unfair tax of one of America's great industries removed. So it's going to be a give and take. So they have some internal matters to decide before they can engage in an external negotiation.
Edward, thanks Caroline. Uh Mr. Secretary, so contacts I have in the business community say that they're they're basically frozen for long-term investment because of the uncertainty around tariffs. How long do you think President Trump has to make a deal before there's damage to the economy? Look, I I think that what we're seeing is that business leaders, they they've gone into a pause and I think we're going to give them great certainty on this tax bill.
And I think over the next couple of weeks, as as I said, we have 18 important trading relationships. We'll put China to the side. 17 they are in motion. And then as I said yesterday, I think there's a very good chance we're going to get this tax bill done. And the tax bill is going to be very powerful for domestic US investment.
So what we are going to do, one of the most powerful parts of President Trump's 2017 tax bill was full expensing of equipment. We are going to make that, as President Trump said in his speech to Congress, that will be retroactive to January 20th. The other thing that we are looking to add is full expensing for factories. So bring your factory back.
You can fully expense the equipment and the building. We will couple that with deregulation, cheap energy and regulatory certainty and that will continue to make the US the greatest destination for domestic and foreign investment. The president, if I can apologize, the president said that world leaders would like to meet with him in Rome in Vatican in Vatican City.
I'm sorry about uh trade other than President Zullinsky. Who did the president meet with and about trade and when could we get some of those deals? The president met with President Zinsky as you know which we talked about uh and the president continues to be engaged with uh his fellow foreign leader his fellow leaders around the world in the European Union.
You've seen many of them visit the White House. I want to harp on in closing the point the secretary just made on the campaign trail. president promised the American public that he was going to make America the best country in the world to do business again. The lowest taxes, lowest regulation, lowest energy costs of anywhere in the world.
And if you do business in the United States, you won't pay a tariff. You won't pay a price. That's not just good for companies around the world, but it's good for the American worker. That's what this team is focused so hard on every day. We have uh work to do. The golden age of America is underway. Uh, but as I pointed out in the beginning, there's a lot of reason for the American consumer, the American CEO, the American small business owner to be confident and optimistic about this president and where we're headed. So, you will hear
more from the president himself later this evening. He is traveling to Michigan, as you all know. He'll make a stop at the Air Force base with Governor Whitmer and then we will head to a rally tonight where you'll hear more from him directly. So, we'll see you in Michigan. Thank you guys. All right, there we go. Good morning.
Good morning. Thank everybody for being here. Scott Bent just got done uh with his press briefing. To be honest, they said nothing. They said absolutely nothing. I mean, like when guys, when I mean they said literally nothing, they said nothing. There was nothing there that was something we didn't know. Everything they said was a regurgitation of facts that they or of of of facts that they implied have been true and we got no progress on if we're closer to a trade deal.
The closest we got was someone asking about India and Bent said India is really good to negotiate. We like working with India. That's it. So I don't really know what the point of this was to be honest. Like genuinely I'm trying to think are we going to get some bad jobs data? We got Jolt at 10 a.m. Are we going to get something where the administration is trying to cover for and kind of uh front run? These are the main quotes from Bent.
So he said, "We will be speaking to 17 trading partners over the next few weeks." He said that on CNBC yesterday, so not new. Ignore the surveys. Look at real data when it comes to manufacturing. They've been saying that for a while. If the Chinese don't make a deal, they can lose 10 million jobs.
A, we don't know if that's true. B, they've been saying this for the past couple months that the Chinese economy will get decimated if they don't make a deal. So, it's not like that's new. Uh, next, they said President Trump creates strategic uncertainty in the trade talks to get better deals. We definitely know he creates uncertainty.
Uh is it strategic? We'll find out if we get some good deals, but like that's not new either. And then finally, he said, "We want long-term tariff revenues to replace income taxes. I think there's a strong chance we see this in the next tax bill." That also is not new. Trump has been talking about that for the past couple months.
So, I have no idea what the point of that was. Like, I thought maybe we're closer to a deal. Maybe they're going to announce like some real progress, but nothing. They said nothing. Now, here was the craziest part of this uh of this uh press briefing. If you're just joining, Amazon today announced that they will be showing tariff prices on their products.
Why is Amazon doing this? And Rob, thank you for the $5 chip chat. He's asking right here, uh Amit, if you were the CEO of Amazon, would you think it's a good idea to post tariff costs to consumers? 1,000%. If I'm Amazon and I'm known for low cost goods and fast shipping and someone buying a water bottle instead of paying $5, now they have to pay $7.50.
I want to make sure the consumer knows I'm not charging you the $ 250. I'm not trying to squeeze more money out of you. It's this macroexternal new world order paradigmatic approach that Trump has engaged in which is forcing me to charge you that 145% because Amazon's not even making that 250 in terms of their profits or their revenues.
it's going to the Department of Homeland Security to collect the revenues. So, in the context of tariffs, so from that perspective, I think you have to let the consumer know it's not your fault. This is what Bent had to say uh and the White House had to say about what Amazon is doing.
Um, so it was reported this morning that Amazon will soon display a little number next to the price of each product that shows how much the Trump tariffs are adding to the cost of each product. So, isn't that a perfect crystal clear demonstration that it's the American consumer and not China who is going to have to pay for these policies? I will uh take this since I just got off the phone with the president about Amazon's announcement.
Uh this is a hostile and political act by Amazon. Why didn't Amazon do this when the Biden administration hiked inflation to the highest level in 40 years? And I would also add that uh it's not a surprise because as Reuters recently wrote um Amazon Amazon has partnered with a Chinese propaganda arm. So this is another reason why Americans should buy American.
It's another reason why we are onshoring critical supply chains here at home to shore up our own critical supply chain uh and boost our own manufacturing here. Is Jeff Bezos still a Trump supporter? Uh, look, I will not speak to the president's uh relationships with uh Jeff Bezos, but I will tell you u that this is certainly a hostile and political action by Amazon.
And secretary, if you have anything to add. Yeah, I I would also add that the bring bringing down the the terrible Biden infliction has been a priority for the first 100 days of the Trump administration and President Trump has done a great job of leading that uh since January 20th. Uh interest rates, mortgage rates are down.
Uh gasoline and energy prices are down. We're expecting the further decreases. And as Caroline said, uh the big tax on consumers that goes unnoticed is deregulation or regulation. And we are deregulating and bringing that down. So, okay, that's absolutely ridiculous, dude. He's he says the big tax on consumers that gets I mean guys this is like insanity what he just said right there and I I'm a fan of Bent. I like him.
He says a lot of good things. He helps markets get more calm. But what he said right there is absolutely insane. His argument is that a bigger tax on consumers you and I when we buy a product that is more prevalent than a 145% tariff on a water bottle coming from China is the lack of deregulation. aka if there are higher regulations on uh goods and services because we're not in a deregulatory environment then that artificially makes products cost more money we can't calculate how much that makes products cost more money so there is a tax he's
arguing on consumers because of a strong regulatory environment that we don't know about and so that matters more than a quote unquote consumption tax based on tariffs a how do you quantify that like like how how many regulations do you have to put into some fancy formula to be able to come up with the fact that oh this water bottle costs $6 instead of $5 because of all these regulations we haven't deregulated from like like that in of itself it's just like even if there's some truth value to that claim the idea behind it is preposterous
because no administration would ever say there's this deregulation tax that they want companies to be able to pay attention to B we can easily calculate Amazon right here down 2% how much the water bottle costs with tariffs because we know the exact percentage tariff which is $145 5% currently right now in China.
Uh, and you can just add that to the cost of goods and then be able to clearly show to the consumer what it looks like. I mean, imagine Amazon trying to figure out the cost of all the regulations we have and then calculate that into a number that they can show you on your screen when you buy a product. It's insanity. Like, it makes no sense.
Like, Amazon would never do that because A, it's not easy to do that. It's not feasible to do that. B, it doesn't make sense to do that. What makes sense to do is say, "Hey, this is more expensive not because we want to upcharge you, but because of tariffs." I think that is a 1,000% reasonable thing to do as a US business.
It's incredibly transparent and at the end of the day, it's helping your brand because if people think Amazon gets more expensive, they're not going to want to shop at Amazon. Now, maybe the administration wants people to think that because Amazon does sell a lot of cheap stuff from China. So, that's a different question in terms of how you think of the administration's approach to American businesses and if they should uh continue pumping things from from China at low cost.
But the idea that Amazon as a as a business is wrong to show that transparency I think is ridiculous. Now granted uh the administration needed a response to that. That's why Caroline Levette had that. She she knew that question was coming. That's why she had that picture uh handy for the for the uh the the Amazon partner with the Chinese propaganda firm which I'm sure is true.
I mean a lot of companies partner with Chinese propaganda firms in China because there's 1.4 billion people. I'm sure Disney's partner with them. All these companies are partnered with them. But the broader question is why is Amazon increasing these price or showing these increased prices? And I think they have to in order to make sure people don't blame them for the uh increased in tariff prices that people have to pay.
Nonetheless, uh in terms of the actual uh uh press briefing, again, I I just don't think we got anything new. I don't think we got anything new. Yes, the article was three years old. It's from 2021. I just saw that right now. I don't know if they're still partnered with that same firm, but yeah, it's it's that that's the uh article they were referencing.
So, I don't know what the point of that was. I guess they wanted to just calm markets down a little bit by saying we're getting closer to deals. I don't think we are any closer to a deal yet. At least we don't know about that from the progress. I do think we're way closer than we were two weeks ago, especially with India and and maybe Japan.
But, um, at this point, markets have pumped dramatically since last week. We had four days in a row or three days in a row of 1.5% green. Yesterday, we closed green. So that's the first 5day stretch of being green in a couple months in uh 2025. But that's going to go away if we don't get deals soon. And I think the administration knows that.
So they're trying to buy some time, which is fair. It's smart on them to do. But in terms of getting any new details from that press conference, I don't think we got much out of that. So right here up 7%. If you're just joining, good morning. So crushed earnings. Uh uh the tech platform unfortunately did not grow as much as people wanted them to grow.
But at this point I think the tech the tech platform is becoming irrelevant because it's just not growing. It's up 10% year-over-year. But financial services is up more than double and the the lending is up 25%. Notice says we are off to a tremendous start in 2025. In Q1 we deliver durable growth and stronger returns driven by a relentless focus on product innovation and brand building.
6 cents EPS versus three expected. 772 million revenue versus 739 and 800,000 new members. Um, I expect SoFi to pump. I mean, I expect SoFi to to continue this momentum. SoFi tends to dump after a pre-market pump. I think these earnings are pretty good. Bent didn't like say anything crazy that would ruin the macro.
He didn't say anything new, but he didn't say anything that was like necessarily net bad, I think, for markets, uh, unless you're Amazon. So, um, I I I I think the macro is in a decent spot right now, at least for SoFi today. And we're just going to have to see if the momentum can hold going into the actual market open. Now, HIMS. So, um I bought HIMS yesterday.
I know this is a surprise to a lot of people. The reason I didn't announce it is because I bought it at like 8:50 p.m. I bought it late in the night. I didn't buy it on the market open or market close. And I bought it because I'm in a group chat with a couple friends and one of my friends, shout out to Nate, he uh he's been a Himsbull for a long time and he's just like he was just spamming, you got to buy him, you got to buy him, you got to buy him.
So, I was like, you know what? Screw it. I'm just going to buy 100 shares. So, I bought a 100 shares yesterday and um I didn't expect for it to do what it did, but it did what it did. And so, this was the buy 2858. Again, I think this was at like 8:50 p.m. or whatever time it was. And then, uh I sold it today at 40 bucks.
I mean, dude, it went up 40% in less than 24 hours. I think that's a bit ridiculous. So, I'm out of him. It was a good trade. I'm very uh happy for all the HIMS holders. In fact, Roy actually saw my tweet when I we were on the Robin Hood Weekly and when I posted the screenshot, we were in the middle of the podcast and he like said, "Oh, my did you just buy him?" And I was like, "Yeah, I just bought him because he saw the screenshot.
" But I'm out, dude. 40% is ridiculous in less than Are you kidding me? In less than 24 hours. Now, why is him up 40%. Well, they partnered with Novo Nordis, which uh is a great partnership. And the thesis behind the partnership is taking Novo's drugs and pairing it with Hims's distribution, which I think makes a lot of sense.
And the stock should be up, but should it be up 40%. I mean, or I I I don't think so. Granted, the stock is sold short 30%, so I can understand why there's a squeeze, but I think those squeezes are rather temporary instead of uh like it's squeezing to the moon. The last time we saw this happen was when HIMS pumped to 70.
Now, could that happen again? Sure. It wouldn't surprise me, and I would be very happy for him shareholders. It would have been a bad sell on my part because I could have made more, but I also don't want to take the risk for that because at the end of the day, I think 40% is is a is a bit aggressive.
So, I think a bunch of you guys said you sold Hins as well. Uh there was a bunch of people on at around 7:30 or 7:45 when this news broke. So, for those that took profits, congrats if you're holding on. I mean, it's still up 35% and maybe it continues to pump when the market opens, but it's not giving away too much of the of the overall gains here right now.
Now, and again, the reason I also sold it is because I'm not really long hymns. Again, I bought it kind of as a joke to my friend who's just been asking me to buy it. So, it wasn't like I did a little bit of DD and I agree it's one it's it's cheap. I've been saying that for the past couple of weeks.
It's very cheap uh compared to their growth rates. And GLP is not even the story. GLP is just like a cherry on top in terms of the actual healthcare platform story. But it also wasn't like, you know, super long conviction. I wanna I want to keep the name. So, if it gets back into the high 20s again, I'll buy again.
If not, then I'm happy for him shareholders. We do have earnings on May 5th. So, if they crush earnings, that could be another catalyst. Uh, but that is the reason this stock currently is up 40% um right now. And for those that bought at like $10, $5, man, I know a lot this thing was stuck at like $3 for like a year.
I know a lot of you guys are OG him. I mean, you know, there's probably no reason to sell on this if you believe there is a very long-term vision on this company. We got 10 minutes until the market opens. We also had Spotify earnings. Unfortunately, Spotify missed EPS by 56%. I still don't know why. I think it's because some of their operating margins went down because they have to pay out podcasters.
They're kind of doing this new YouTube monetization program, but for podcasting on Spotify and so that means they have to pay creators, which means they're not going to be as profitable. I think it's a good long-term story for Spotify, but short-term that's going to hurt their margins. They're down about 7%. Also, MAUs came in a little bit worse than expected.
Spotify has almost 700 million users, though. I think they're at like 670 now. So, they're going to get to a billion users in the next couple years. If you're long this stock, I don't think this quarter was a reason to sell. And I still think they're going to be more recession resistant like a Netflix versus some of these other names.
But this one down 7% on not the uh not the best earnings. I mean, would you buy Google right now? Yes. I like Google. Bought it last week before earnings. I think it keeps getting disrespected by the market. It's basically at the price I bought it at. I bought it at 158. It's at 159.
So yeah, I mean I the reason I didn't sell Google when it pumped like 167 is because I I just I I think going long on Google is not crazy, especially at these valuations. So, uh, Google right here, 159. We got big tech earnings, uh, tomorrow and Thursday. Today is still going to be a long day. We have Grab at 7 p.m. Um, we have um, Snapchat. I have a swing trade on that.
We have um, uh, First Solar. We have FICO after the bell. We got a lot more companies reporting today. Jason's going to be on for technical Tuesday. We also have Starbucks. So, I think the market close might be like seven hours or something. Then we're going to start at 3:45 and then if Grab reports at 7, we might just stay on until the call ends, which would be at 9.
So, it's going to be a long market close today, but we got a lot of earnings to get into and a lot of stuff to look at. Also, Visa today after the bell. So, there's going to be a ton of stuff to analyze as well. Uh, eight more minutes until we get into the market open. Lutnik is also going to be live tonight at 2 PM.
Uh, now I thought Lutnik would be live because Bent would announce a really big deal and then Lutnik would like double down on what Bent had to say. That's why I thought they're bringing him back to the media because they've kind of kept him away for the past two weeks. Now that Bessent said basically nothing.
Um, I don't know why Lutnik is going on TV and I'm a little afraid of him going on TV, but at 2 p.m. I guess we're going to see what Lutnick has to say. Also, Basense said uh this was another quote. This was I thought a very interesting quote right here. Um, retail is buying the dip. They trust Trump even if institutional investors don't.
So he basically said individual investors have still engaged in the market because they trust Trump policies. And he says our data is showing that institutional investors are the one that are showing more weakness because they don't trust him. He's right about that. Retail's been buying the dip pretty aggressively.
Uh 40 billion in the month of April and we or in the month of March. We'll get April numbers soon. But um yeah, but since acknowledging, hey, that the institutions are are scared of the volatility whereas retail investors are engaging it. Um I guess we're going to see who ends up being right in this situation.
I still think, you know, we could have a bullish market. I know a lot of people that are DCAing believes that believe that's the case, but we got to get deals soon. And until we get these deals, it's going to be hard to see this momentum continue to improve. We have Meta tomorrow. We have uh Meta's down about 1% right here. We have Microsoft tomorrow along with Robin Hood.
That's going to be a big one tomorrow. Meta, Microsoft, Robin Hood, and then Amazon and Apple on Thursday. Now, Amazon is down 2% right here. They're going to have to talk a lot about these tariffs and the implications of these tariffs. The funny thing about this is I think the Chinese tariffs are going to be rolled back anyway, the 145% sooner or later.
So, even if Amazon's displaying the tariff prices, the question is how long will it be a strain on the consumer? If Trump ends up going from 145% to 50%, I think Amazon's still going to display the prices. If it was like 10% or 20%, I don't think Amazon will make that big of a deal of showing like the extra couple bucks you're paying on every product.
But if it's 145, that means things will get more expensive. Consumers will have to bear that cost and Amazon's probably going to want to not take the the brunt of that brand uh pain by by by people assuming that Amazon's raising prices. So, I think it makes sense to show that when tariffs are this high, but if tariffs get rolled back, they're probably not going to show a an alternative tariff price on every single product.
Position on Snap is 1,000 shares at 870. I I I don't know, dude. I think this thing pumps back to 112. If I'm not a TA expert, but if you look at the chart, last time we were anywhere near below 8 was September 2023. We we were on April 8th, but that doesn't really count because the whole market was down and it was it was down for a day and then we just rebounded very quickly from it.
Snap would have to colossally mess up earnings and uh I think given the multiple it's trading at right now and given the growth in DAU MAU their gross profit positive and the SNAP plus program which is a nice juicy subscription revenue program for them is growing dramatically. I think that's enough to get it back to like 112 which is where it usually trades at.
Uh I think the discount at 8 is is primarily due to the tariff volatility. So unless they say something really bad about ad ad budgets or something I I think Snap's going to be okay. But today after the bell, we're going to find out what happens with with Snapchat. Uh UPS and Intel, we have five minutes until the market opens.
This news was pretty interesting this morning. So UPS also had earnings and their earnings were okay. Not amazing, but also not the best. UPS did announce a 20,000 cut in terms of their workforce. The reason I me mentioned Intel is because Intel also cut 20% of their workforce uh last week. Uh now UPS is announcing 20,000 jobs, 20,000 staff and cutting over 70 facilities.
Uh so they say the cuts are linked to the changing trade environment, the CEO said and they plan to shutter 73 facilities and save 3.5 billion as demand remains soft. UPS is cutting 20,000 staff and shutting over 70 facilities. This is the first example that we are seeing. Intel again cut 20%. UPS is cutting 20,000.
The first example of we're seeing with a company around demand and linking that demand to layoffs. Like this is the first time we're really seeing a company explicitly say we are seeing softening demand, which makes sense if you look at all the consumer confidence data that we've been looking at over the past couple weeks.
And as a result, we're cutting down 20,000 jobs and removing 73 facilities. So, that's not good. Now, granted, there was a big Bloomberg article yesterday on uh UPS and a rumor that UPS is now working with Figer, Figure AI, the humanoid robotics company, to start deploying their robots into the company. Even if this rumor is true, I don't think that they laid off 20,000 people or they're planning to lay off 20,000 people just because they're deploying humanoid robots.
That's definitely something that's possible, but I think that's still a long time away even if this partnership is real. Uh for them to say we're going to cut off 20,000 jobs. I think it's more so a question of demand because the robots are not going to be operational tomorrow and you don't have 20,000 robots that can immediately be deployed.
So you would need humans to handle those packages. Well, if you don't have the demand for those humans because the demand is weakening as the CEO said, you can't have those jobs anymore. So this is I think UPS is the first company to show us the Trump tariffs are actually having a impact on jobs in a meaningful way.
UPS stock right here relatively flat down about 1%. I guess the layoffs kind of softened the blow on earnings so that the market thought at least they're going to save their margins somehow if they're seeing demand go down. Uh UPS's numbers uh beat by 8% on EPS and beat by 3% on revenue. Again, guidance was the bigger issue here when it comes to demand, but overall topline and bottom line was not uh was not as bad.
So, you got uh you got you got UPS right here down about 1%. Now, we also had some other earnings. Royal Caribbean 271 versus 23. They beat by 7%, 3.9 billion versus 4.0 billion on revenue. Royal Caribbean stock is up 3%. So, that's good for the cruise lines, showing that demand is not necessarily slowing down as dramatically as people thought in terms of what the tariffs would have on an impact.
And then we had PayPal, which uh look, revenue is growing at 1% year-over-year at this point. And I just don't think they're going to get a multiple attached to them if they're growing by 1%. So they missed revenue by 1%, they grew EPS by 15%, but revenues overall growth is up 1%. EPS is up 23%, stocks down about 3%. They bought back um 1.
5 billion worth of stock in the past 12 months. They bought back six billion worth of stock. At this point, I think the buybacks are not really helping the narrative. What would help is maybe a dividend, which is Steve's idea. Steve thinks they should stop the buyback and put a dividend. And I can't say I disagree.
I think at least people would say, "I'm getting a yield off this stock that is guaranteed versus a buyback is a yield, but only if the stock actually appreciates in value. Now, PayPal just went green." All right, there you go. So, PayPal up 2%. It was down 3%, bounced off 62, now to 66.2. So, up about 2% right there. But I do think more people would be happy if they got a guaranteed yield versus a uh presumed yield from the stock going up with with the buybacks.
So that's what we got on earnings today. We got about 30 seconds until the market opens. Robin Hood's up about 1%. Hims is up 35%. Again, congrats to him shareholders. This is pretty incredible. This is based on the Novo Partnership and maybe it squeezes, who knows, to 4550 as soon as the market opens or maybe it dumps, but we're going to find out in the next 20 seconds.
And then SoFi is up 7% 1412 great quarter triple beat raised guidance. Now it's just a question of if the market can continue to build on that momentum for soi. All right, here we go. 9:30 Tuesday, April 29th. Thank you everybody for being here. The stock market is now open. All right, wake your ass up. Let's get into it. SoFi 1403 up 6.23% on the day.
So Soi opens up about 7.2%. 14.3. Let's check Hims real quick. Hims is dumping a little bit from where it was. It was up 37. Now it's up 31. So you got some people selling to strength right here. We got to see if it can hold this 30% or if it reverses course. PayPal up 2.3%. Royal Caribbean up 3.4%. SoFi still up 7.2%.
1420 I'm going to check resistance at 15 in a second on SoFi and see what that is looking like. Hoodie 1.4 4963. Spotify is down 7%. Nvidia is down 1%. Palenteer basically flat. Grab is down.32. Waste management they had a decent earnings. Nothing too crazy yesterday. They're down about 3.2%. Uh NXPI they're down 8%. They didn't have the best earnings.
This is a semiconductor company. Not the best. Uh getting hit a little bit more by the tariff. So that one is down. Uh PayPal up 1.9, SoFi 7%, HIMS is going down 27%. All right, so people are definitely selling into that strength. We peaked at 4272 in the pre-markets right now at 3665 uh up about 27.5%.
Currently right now, where is big tech? Meta is down.3. Googs is down.2. Amazon again, Bent just said Amazon's being political. That's down 1.65%. market might be buying that news even though it's red right here bouncing from 182.88 and then Microsoft right here is flat. So big tech relatively flat. So still holding on to 7.5.
It's not giving it up that easily and HIMS is giving up the astronomical gains. But I don't think anyone can be upset that it's up 27% here right now in the uh in the pre-markets. Again, I did sell at 40. I just felt like 40% was a bit aggressive for a stock that I don't even know that much about.
But if it even ends the day up 10 15% I think as a long-term shareholder you can't be that upset when it comes to him. Snapchat right here up about 1.76%. Paler goes green 11480. We hit 115 yesterday I think after hours. We just hit 115 right now for a second. Got rejected right at 115 but we are at 11480 again. Palenteer they've got earnings uh in a week and the market continues to show them strength.
Look at SoFi go. So now up 8%. Let's check resistance at 15 and see what we got. on SoFi. Cracking 15 I think psychologically would be very very exciting for this one. $15. The share wall that we have to overcome at 15 is 168,000 shares. 168,000 shares. That's a bit aggressive, but SoFi's volumes, you know, could easily get there.
The stock trades like yesterday it traded 90 million shares. Today it's already traded 25 million shares. because the average volume is 51 million shares. So, I mean 168,000 shares would not be would not be that crazy. I check resistance on Robin Hood Gold. They have level two market data.
There's some other websites that give it. I pay five bucks a month for it, but if you have Robin Hood, you can use level two market data to see the resistance. Snapchat right here at nine bucks. Microsoft at 391. Hoodie at 4950. Pound chair. Wow. 115. My goodness. The street loves it. 11523. Again, I just don't think the move we've seen from the bottom, which has been 74% on Palunteer, is retail.
Like maybe I'm underestimating how much retail is buying this thing, but that's a lot of market cap for retail. I just I don't know. It's just a lot of buying pressure on retail. I'm sure retail definitely had something to do with it, but this is uh I don't know. This feels a little bit more like institutions that feel they missed it and they don't want to miss the runup and they're going into earnings and they think it's going to be good earnings.
Now, could it tank on earnings even with all this uh momentum? Yeah, because it's maybe pumping a little bit too much before earnings, but who knows what if we get an Nvidia type of quarter? Well, I mean, I'm calling for 40% on the entire year. If they give us 40% of this quarter, I think that would be insane. I'm not expecting that.
I'm expecting more so like 32 33%. That would be really nice, but I think the street's expecting a big quarter. And so, if we get it, we get it. If we don't, we don't. I know a lot of us are long on this name, but Pounder right here obviously getting a ton of momentum here right now. Meta right here at 549.
Google at 159. Amazon at 185. Amazon still down about 1.2%. Wow. SoFi 1440. 9.2% baby. Let's check on the SoFi options and see how they're doing. Um, all right. Cool. We're up 320% on these. So, again, this is my SoFi exposure for the year. 100 call debit spreads for $15 and 20 for 1520 strikes. If SoFi gets to 20 bucks, we will take 3500 and turn it into 50,000.
But we got to get to 20 by that expiration 11626. So right now up about 325%. We got about seven months to get to 20 bucks. And if we can, this would be a really awesome trade. Bought those options when SoFi was seven bucks back in September. But now the question is if the market can continue to reward SoFi on their execution. 9.3%.
Look, we've seen this before and it tends to dump. But right now, 5 minutes into the market open, it's not dumping. It's showing strength and maybe it does dump eventually throughout the day. Maybe Lutnik says something and it's bad, but I mean strength looks relatively decent. Even if it falls one or two% from here and we're up 7% on the day, I think that would be a massive win uh on an earnings day for SoFi.
PayPal right here lost most of its gains. Now it's up half a percent. It was up 3%. Robin Hood right here 4932. Grab just went green. Um Bitcoin 94. Oh, not did mention they're getting ready to bring crypto back and they didn't include crypto in their guidance. So, if they do bring crypto back pretty soon, hopefully in the next couple months, that could be a tailwind as well for for SoFi.
Uh, where is Hims? Where is Hims? Hims is Yeah, Hims is dumping from the top. It's not dumping because it's up 25% on the day, but it was up 40%. People are taking profits. It's normal. I think that's totally normal. If it ends anywhere near these levels on the day, I think that would be very exciting for him. Palter now 11397.
That one's going red. Celsius going red. Arc is going red. Cheesecake going red. Where is Archer? Archer is up a little bit 35%. SoFi still 1440. Royal Caribbean great earnings that's up 2%. Microsoft flat. And then Robin Hood right here 4917. Where is the S&P? S&P is down about a quarter of a percent. Oh, Tesla.
Where is Tessie? Tesla is also down 2%. So Tesla was at 275 yesterday. Now it's at 285. It was at 295. And Tesla is down right here on the day. SMH, the semis are all red pretty much. Semis is uh the ETF is down 1%. All of them are down about 2 to 3%. SMCI down 1%, AMD down half a percent, Lamb down one, Dell down half, Broadcom down half, ASML down 1.2.
TSM the only one that's green currently right now. All right. I mean, look, you can't be mad if you're a HIM shareholder. like it's up 23% off of a partnership which should be good for the earnings but it's not like the earn it's not like the Novo Nord dis partnership is going to increase the earnings by 40%.
I don't think so at least not anytime soon. So the stock going up by 40% was a bit aggressive but stocks still up 20%. And you know it's a green day at the end of the day so I don't think anyone can complain as even if it holds five or 7% on the day I think for longs that would be good. So 1437 still holding above that 14 range.
S&P red Tesla 281 and then Robin Hood just above that $49 level. Chris says it's also not exclusive. I didn't know that. Okay, that could be another uh you know argument to poke a hole in terms of the Novo partnership that HIMS is not exclusively distributing their drugs which yeah also is another reason why 40% seemed a bit aggressive as soon as it came out.
Now, the reason I think it pumped 40% is because um it's it's short. So, all I mean, it's 30% sold short. So, all the shorts probably got super scared of the partnership and maybe started covering as much as they could and that maybe created the pump or people just started buying because they thought now the shorts would have to be squeezing so much that they should get in as soon as possible and that led to people buying it at 40 bucks, 42 bucks, whatever.
But maybe the partnership itself didn't justify that 40% gain. So, right here, 1435. PayPal just went red. PayPal just went red on the day Google is dumping. Whereas Google, wow, Google 1.5%. What is that on Google? It was down like 0.05. That's got to be It's got to be a headline in my opinion. Why is Google's dumping like this? What is going on on Googles? We knew about the UK find last week, the antitrust thing on Google.
Um, I don't see a headline yet, but it looks like there's something. Google right there down 1.6. six. It is now lower than what I bought it. I bought it at 158. Now it's at 157.9. So really, the market just did not care about those earnings. Robin Hood goes red as well. SoFi might start to get some weakness because the whole market's going red. Yep.
SoFi right there. There you go. 1426. Uh Crowd Strike's up a little bit. Verizon's up a little bit. PaloAlto, they acquired a company for $700 million yesterday. So the street was happy with that acquisition. That's up 1.15%. Netflix down about 1.2% 2% but still basically at all time highs at 1100 and the rest of the market starting to get a little bit of weakness.
Rocket Lab's down, SMCI is down. Rivian is down. So 1424 on the day. Yeah, I still don't see the reason for Google. Still don't see the reason for Google, but there's got to be something. There's got to be something. Jolts is at 10 a.m. Correct. Jolts is at 10 a.m. So, Jolts is also something, you know, and I kind of feel that maybe Bent is speaking about uh or maybe they did this whole press conference with the media, NASDAQ down half a percent.
Because Jolts might not be that good and they're trying to, you know, trying to show, hey, things are going well even if even if uh even if job listings are going down in in in the in the United States. They did put an emphasis on the 345,000 jobs in terms of non-farm payrolls that we've added over the past couple months.
Uh Trump's also speaking at Michigan tonight. Also, one piece of news that went under under the radar yesterday is the Wall Street Journal article that talked about Trump rolling back the auto tariffs. Now, it's not confirmed. We have to wait until what Trump says tonight in Michigan, which I think the reason that Wall Street Journal got these sources is because he's going to Michigan, which is the auto manufacturer capital of the United States.
Um but uh what they reported yesterday is that Trump is expected to lower auto tariffs so they don't pile up with uh tariffs like steel and aluminum which are already 25%. He said if companies pay the Wall Street Journal is reporting that if companies pay a 25% tariff on cars from countries this month they can get some of that money back in terms of a refund aka they're able to kind of forego the tariffs that they've already paid which to me is like a pretty big roll back.
And then they said for car parts from other countries, there's a 25% tax starting May 3rd. If a company makes cars in the US, they can get that money back like 3.75% of that car's price in the first year, then 2.75% in the next year, and after that, no more refunds. So, if Trump to commemorate his 100 days in office mentions that um that uh he's going to be lowering auto tariffs, a it's it's it's again him folding on tariffs that he was saying or like super important, which it goes back to my thesis that he's going to be rolling back a lot more than just auto
tariffs because I think the administration knows this is unsustainable. And B, that should be good for a GM, a Ford, and a Tesla, but there's no real confirmation on that yet. So, we have to see in his rally in Michigan if he makes that a priority to be able to make that announcement. Tesla right here down about 1.
3% on the day 281 currently right now. The libs also won in Canada. That is correct. And Pierre lost his seat if I'm not wrong. So not only did he lose the election, he lost his seat in the Conservative party. So it was a pretty aggressive beating from the Liberals to the Conservatives. and Mark Carney uh is now going to be the next prime minister of Canada.
So, uh Liberals continue to win and um it looks like the conservative movement has died down in Canada. It it got close at like 900 p.m. Like even the Kali polls started becoming 50/50, which means if you swing traded it, there was a lot of alpha for you to get in terms of that arbitrage. But by the end of it, it became pretty much an aggressive beating by uh by Carney.
SoFi right here back to 1440 up 9%. Went down by 7% or went down to 7% now it's back up to 9%. So SoFi still holding on to its momentum not really showing a ton of weakness yet. Uh HIMS earnings is next week. Uh it's not today. Snapchat earnings is going to be today along with FICO, Starbucks, and Visa. But HIMS is not today. uh probably next week and then I think May 2nd if I'm not wrong or no maybe maybe it might be May 4th.
Uh and then Grab is is is going to be today. So I'll be live for for Grab. S&P just had a big green candle then it went away. S&P look at that. They jumped up to like 550 then it went back down to 549.8. Now it's kind of struggling to maintain some of that green. It's going back and forth uh very quickly.
We're going to get the Jolts data in about 15 minutes and then we'll see how the market interprets that as well. Let me give the expectations for Jolts. So, the market is thinking on Jolts um 7.4 million jobs. The market wants 7.4 million jobs. If we come in lower than that, then that means we probably are going to see unemployment rise, which means JPAL needs to start cutting.
Even though he's not going to cut in May, but I think he should. Uh, but if we get more than that, either they're ghost jobs or we we we legit don't have a labor problem in the United States, which has kind of been the narrative over the past couple years. It's like, are the jobs fake or do we actually just have these many excess jobs? And so, Jilt will give us a little bit better of an understanding on that um, pretty soon.
Jake, thanks for the $5 super chat. Have you seen the ARCVX venture fund? And what are your thoughts on exposure to SpaceX anthropic figure? Not the biggest ARC fan, but is it worth it? Uh I am not a fan of these companies or these funds. And the number one reason for that is because there's no transparency.
If you're going to invest in a private company, you need to know at least something about what you're investing in. You have no idea what price ARC bought the valuations at. Uh you can't see any of the data room, the financials, and like some of the stuff if you're a private investor, you have full access to if you're investing through a a a correct SPV.
There's a lot of bad SPVS, which are special purpose vehicles, but the good ones actually give you access to the data. So, I've never been a fan of the venttor funds. Uh, but if you literally think SpaceX is going to like$10 trillion dollars or something and you just want to get exposure in some way, then those ARC funds are a way to to get exposure.
If you just like you really feel heavily convicted in it, but in general, I don't think these VC ETFs are the way to get exposure to private investments. I'd rather use something like Hive, which is a secondary platform where you can just buy the shares outright, even if you have to pay a little bit more of a premium.
So right here, 1435, that's up 8.9%. So still holding on. Snapchat up 8.96, 1.42%. 42% and then hoodie 4930 that's up 78 here right now. How will Jolt be good if we just laid off almost 100,000 people between Intel and UPS? I agree. I think Jolt is not going to be the best. I mean UPS laying off 20,000 people today. Intel laying off 20% of their workforce and UPS today officially announcing that the tariffs are decreasing demand which is why we're getting rid of 73 facilities and and firing 20,000 people.
that that's a real concern. That's a real issue, right? Um and I would imagine it's not because UPS's business is struggling. It's because the overall environment for activities uh in in terms of business activity, capital spending, and then ordering of goods is going down, which is actually not the best news for Amazon.
Now, there can be an argument that Amazon is so much more of a behemoth than UPS because UPS relies on companies like Amazon for orders that Amazon's vertical integration is um having a good impact on their overall demand whereas on UPS it's it's like front running them. But still, you can make an argument that maybe people aren't ordering as many goods anymore, which is why UPS is not delivering as many packages.
Shopify is basically flat right now. I think the UPS news is also not bullish for Shopify because Shopify sells stuff online and if UPS says, "Hey, demand's coming down." Maybe Shopify is not shipping out as many orders because of demand coming down. So, that could have some implications right there on Shopify and Amazon.
Uh, Nvidia, are we green? We are green on Nvidia. We are green on Nvidia. Now, remember the headline yesterday on Nvidia was that China's coming up with a chip that's going to be uh very powerful. Not as powerful as the GB200 like Blackwell, but it is going to start to rival the H100. I think that at the end of the day, if you're an Nvidia shareholder, you have to look past the China revenue.
You have to assume you're not getting it anymore and still believe the AI revolution will be more than enough for Nvidia to keep growing at these astronomical growth rates. By the way, the S&P just went green as well. Nvidia and the S&P going green. It looks like either ALOS are getting involved or maybe we're going to get some news that's causing people to start buying.
But yeah, for Nvidia, you just you got you got to believe in a deeper capex AI story um versus versus like the the China part of the business. Um okay, let's see what else do we have. AMD, where's AMD? AMD is that going green as well? That's up.3%. Okay, so AMD pretty much with Nvidia going green. Are all the semis going green? Half of them are going green.
Half of them are still red. Semis are not really reporting yet. That's going to happen in about two weeks. We're going to get a lot more semi companies. Crypto, Bitcoin, 94,000 of the day. By the way, the ETF inflows on Bitcoin have been just phenomenal. Uh last week we had 300 million, 900 million, 900 million, 400 million, 300 million, and yesterday we had 600 million of inflows.
So, people are buying up the Bitcoin ETFs. Again, this is the first time we've had seven days in a row that have been positive in about two months. And obviously, Michael Sailor's putting in a bid on Bitcoin as well. So, Bitcoin holding up its momentum and that's helping some of the crypto names. Micro Strategy up a little bit on the day, 371.
And then Coinbase up about 02% on the day as well. Max 7s are pretty much all red except for Apple and Microsoft and Nvidia. Tesla's red, Amazon down, Google still don't know why that's down as much. And then Meta basically flat uh on the day. Um let's see what else. What else? What else do we have? Why is Nvidia selling the B20 chip instead of the H20? Honestly, I'm not sure.
I I I didn't even know they were allowed to sell the the B20 into uh into China. I've got to do more research on that. I'm not sure if that's fully accurate either. if they're able to sell the well they're not able to sell any chip into China as of now from my understanding if they're I mean like that's the reason they're taking that $5.
5 billion charge off so I don't think Nvidia is able to sell any chip into China but I'll have to check on if there is any exception for B20 I would assume that the export controls are going to be a way for Trump to control Nvidia as a pawn in this tariff trade war and I don't think they're going to be allowed to trade chips or sell chips into into China for a very long time so I I think it's going going to take a while. C uh as C is up 7%.
This is Jack Mer's Bitcoin holding company, Caner Equity Partners. By the way, I don't think this has to do anything with uh Caner Fitzgerald. People were saying Lutnick's involved with this. I don't think so. I think the name is Caner, but I don't think it has to do with Caner Fitzgerald, the financial services firm. I don't know why it's called Caner Equity Partners, but that's what it's basically like a spa almost for for a Bitcoin company.
It's up like 200% over the past week. That one is up about 7% on the day. Again, their business model is just to buy more Bitcoin and increase their Bitcoin per share versus earnings per share, as they call it, to be a creative to shareholders. SoFi losing a little bit of steam from 1440 to 1420, but I don't think anyone can be that upset about it. Oh, it's their spa.
They're getting 2% as the sponsor. Okay, so that makes sense. I didn't know that. Okay, so Caner Fitzgerald is sponsoring Caner Equity Partners the Spack. Interesting. Huh? Lutnik did do an interview yesterday with Bitcoin magazine for like 30 minutes and he kept talking about how amazing Bitcoin is.
That interview makes a little bit more sense now knowing that his firm is sponsoring the spa. Okay, there you go. So, uh, Lutnik's definitely incentivized to pump the Bitcoin narrative. That's for sure. So, I guess uh I guess that's why that one is also getting some some momentum. Uh what else? What else? What else do we have? What else do we see? Oh, we got a headline right here on tariffs.
China waves tariffs on US ethane imports, sources say. That's from Reuters. That's from Reuters. Interesting. That's good news for the US. Yeah. China waves tariffs on US ethane imports. Seeing that from Bloomberg right now. Okay, so that's not bad. Maybe that's why that the S&P just went from red to green. You got a nice tariff headline on a deescalation of the trade war.
I would imagine the reason they're waving tariffs on US ethane imports is because they need ethane, which makes sense. And this is kind of Trump's plan is that they need so much from us that they're going to wave their tariffs in order to get a better deal. Yeah. They want our gas. Exactly. They need our natural gas as well. So, it seems like that could be the argument for that right now.
Yes, China caved on this one. The US has caved a bunch of times when we took away the 145% tariffs and we took away auto tariffs and iPhone tariffs and all that stuff, but China caving on ethane imports. But this is why the the whole trade war with them is so stupid. Like, China needs us and we need them. They need our ethane.
We need a lot of their cost of labor on cheap goods. So it's like like we should be getting to a reasonable deal pretty soon because we need each other. Which is one of the reasons, you know, people talk about World War II and the US and China going to war with each other. We need each other too much to be going to war with each other.
Now could a war happen? Of course. But like we are way too dependent on each other. They need our consumer. We need their cost of goods. And uh the idea that we would nuke each other, I mean at that point it's just suicide. And in a way that kind of is a form of mutually assured destruction. that stops us from from going into war.
SoFi right here 7.3% again giving up some of its pump but still green up 7% on the on the day. Gro says China imported roughly 46% of the US ethane imports. Yeah. So it seems like they probably need it. Like the Joker needs Batman. Exactly. Dude, one of the best reasons that I one of the reasons that I love the Dark Knight is because Batman can't kill the Joker, right? A because he's too good of a person and he doesn't want to kill him even though he has multiple chances.
B, you could argue that Batman needs a purpose. And just like the Joker needs a purpose and so he wants to create all this chaos and then have someone try to fight him and then try to that the Joker can't kill Batman either. He doesn't want to kill Batman. He wants to keep engaging in the fight. So I mean I mean like maybe China and the US need each other so much that there's no purpose to engaging in a trade war because at the end of the day they need to they need to depend on each other for economic mobility and economic
growth. Cadence Design Systems, this one's up 5%. This is a semiconductor company in the design space for chips. So this one up 5%. They had a pretty good earnings. IBM, by the way, is investing 150 billion over the next 5 years. I don't know why uh Trump didn't tweet about this. You would think Trump would would be boasting about IBM investing 150 billion, but he didn't make a point of that yet.
Um, but last night there was a press release saying they are getting ready to invest more in the United States. So, that is definitely not horrible news for investments and for the United States. Chad says, "What is your lower purpose?" The lower purpose clip by Karp, for those that haven't seen it, you need to see it.
It is the It is the best clip of all time. It is. It is. When Iliano, he did this like March Madness bracket. It ended up losing in the finals to the Coke Sellers because that one is also like a very good clip. But, you know, the lower purpose clip is also not a horrible one. Here's the clip right here for for anyone who hasn't seen this.
It's a nice little uh nice little clip before we get into Palunteer earnings. This is Karp when he was asked about his purpose in life. Purpose. And I also think you often need a lower purpose. Like the higher purpose for me, what kind of what's the lower purpose? Well, I love the idea of getting a drone and having light fentinyl laced urine spraying on analysts who tried to screw us. So that's my lower purpose.
And uh yeah, but you know, I actually told Karp that I loved when he said that when uh we were we were we were at AIPCON and I was walking with him and I was like, "By the way, the fentinel line with Sorcin was incredible." And he just started laughing. He was like, "Yeah, that was a good one.
" I was like, "Yeah, that was a good one. That was that was a pretty good one." So, we got earnings coming up soon for pound chair. May 5th, baby. May 5th. We'll see what happens. Regardless of what happens to the stock, you know, whether it goes up or down, at the end of the day, I think I think this is going to be a good quarter.
And because I'm invested in this truly for the long term, I I kind of just don't care what happens to the stock. I really care about can they keep showing US commercial growth and can they keep showing government growth, which which accelerated really nicely last quarter from like uh 12% to 24% in US government.
Can they get that closer to 30% because if they do, I think it's going to be very exciting for the for the government business. Speaking of uh Pounder, by the way, at the Toronto meetup, there are these four guys who do a lot of business together. They have like a holding company and they have multiple businesses in the city. Uh they are big pounder investors.
They uh showed me a video of them watching the stream that we do on pounder earnings and uh it was literally a Super Bowl party, dude. They had the pounder flag in the background. They had food, they had chips, and every everyone was sitting on a big couch and they showed the big screen TV as the stock started going up.
And as soon as we gapped up from I think it was like 83 to 95 and then eventually we got to 100 after hours, the whole crowd went crazy. It was it was almost like like like I don't know your your favorite football team just won the Super Bowl. Like it was that crazy. So it seems like a lot of you guys celebrate earnings in a in a in a Super Bowl party type of way just like we do on the stream.
And you know last earnings was a pretty strong one. But the difference between last earnings and this one was that last earnings we dumped before earnings. this earnings were pumping hard. So, we're gonna have to see how the stock ultimately reacts based on the movement of it going into earnings. Bitcoin right here 94.
9 still green. Um, Boeing is up 183. Where is SoFi? SoFi right here. Wow. 13. Wow. Holy crap. That Did that red candle happen in like 30 seconds? S&P is still green, so it's not macro. That one's just people selling SoFi. That one's just people taking profits right here. SoFi 1440 to 1393. Yes, totally normal 100%. It's It's not abnormal to see it go from up 9% to up 5%.
But still, that was a uh pretty aggressive candle to the downside. Uh Jolt is coming out in 2 minutes. That can either make or break this market. Um okay, let's do a poll right here in the chat. What do you think? We got about two minutes until Jolts. Job openings in America. That's what Jolts is. Above 7.4 million, below 7.4 million. 7.
4 million is the expectation. Or 7.4 million itself. So flat, above or below. What do you think? Flat above or below? Last time we had 7.56 million. Right now the market thinks 7.4, four, which means the market's expecting us to lose about 150,000 jobs, which I think is reasonable given the uh demand destruction, consumer confidence surveys, the uh the the the the tariff volatility decreasing hiring from employers.
So, Nvidia just went red. So, right here, 1377. Now, we got a more aggressive red candle. It wouldn't be crazy to see that Jolt number start to go a bit lower. Now, we might pump if we get a bad jolts because that might signal that JPAL should cut and rate cuts are good. So, it might be one of those bad news is good news type of moments, but we're going to find out in about 35 seconds.
I'm also going to put the Fed probabilities on my screen so we can see immediately um if the rate in if the rate probabilities for May increase. Right now, the probabilities are 7% in May. 7% in May for a cut. All right, here we go. 12 seconds. Let's see. Let's see what we can get on Jolts. 7.4 is the expectation right here.
S&P is still uh just went red. Just went red. Oh, what's the I don't S&P is going down a bit. What's the number? Wow. Wow. 7.192 million. That is 300,000 jobs lower than expected. Or sorry, 200,000 jobs lower. 51% of you said below 7.4. You were correct. Oh my. Oh my. That is low. Now, what are the rate cut probabilities? That's I would assume it should be higher than 7%.
Let's get a refresh right here. Let's see. Um let's see if we can get higher than 7%. I would imagine that is that is pretty aggressive right here. Let's pull this up right now. Um okay, hold on. Let me just refresh. Still 7%. Still 7% on this. Still 7%. Where's the S&P? Where's the S&P? That one didn't change. Uh S&P went red for a second, but now it's flat. SoFi still 1380.
Palanteer basically flat. Nvidia is going green on that. The reason I think some stocks are going green is because this means a rate cut feels more likely, even if it hasn't changed in the Fed probability data yet. Consumer confidence came in at 86 versus 88. So we did get consumer confidence data today as well.
That is lower than expected, but that's not as dramatic as Jolts. I think people are also relieved because if Jolts came in higher than expected, people would legitimately think that Jolts is fake because it it just doesn't make sense anymore to say that we have tons and tons of jobs available given all the volatility that everyone is seeing.
So, at least this can affirm people's beliefs that there is a slowdown in the economy. The question is, can we control that slowdown? Um, and who's going to be responsible if the slowdown turns into a recession? Is it going to be the Fed or is it going to be Trump? And I think that's the thing that the market has to try to figure out.
S&P basically flat but still green. SoFi 1380, Pounder 115, Pounder actually holding up. Nvidia 109, AMD 96, Apple 210. Markets and look at the Q's. Q's are flat as well. I think the markets are thinking all right. Rate cuts. Rate cuts. Rate cuts. Rate cuts. Where is the 10ear? The 10ear is Wow. The tenure is nicely down.
4.185. Look at that. The tenure people are buying bonds because they're Yeah. TLT loves it. Look at the tenure. 10 year. We haven't seen 4.183 in like 3 weeks. We haven't seen below 4.2 in two weeks. So, the reason that's going down is because the market's expecting we're going to get some cuts because we kind of have to get some cuts.
The economic data slowing down as much as it is. Let's get some more coverage on this and then we will keep going from there. 88 Santelli. Hey Rick. Yes. And do watch yields moving down. 10 year yields below yesterday's lows. Now let's get to the data. Consumer confidence is the reason. These are April numbers. Expecting a headline number of 88.
We come in at 86.0. Weakest since April of 2020. And if you look at present situation 133.5 this is the best out of the three. This is only the weakest since se of 24. And if we look at expectations 54.4 you have to go all the way back to October of 2011 to find a lower number on confidence. You know many were wondering what was cross fertilizing what equities were looking really green.
interest rates moving down, fertilizing the equities. But maybe the interest rates moving down has more to do with slowness. But I do caution these confidence numbers can be a bit squishy and the uncertainty could have an overdramatic effect on it. Now let's look at job openings and labor turnover known as jolts. This is for March.
Expecting a number around 7.5 million. We come in light 7,192,000. smallest job opening level since se of 24 as we continue to watch yields move down and a slight reversal on the green and equities but still on the Dow at least some pretty deep green David back to you. Okay, Rick, thank you Rick Santelli.
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent was speaking at the White House this morning. Of course, as you might imagine, a lot of the focus was all right, we'll get back to some of that descent coverage, but the reason markets are green right now, guys, is because um it's time to cut. It's time to cut. This is exactly a good news or a bad news is good news situation.
Um because now markets are expecting that rate cuts are inevitable. Maybe not in May. Again, let me check the probabilities. But definitely in June otherwise the Fed otherwise this will be a Fed recession if they don't cut in June. Like people will blame Trump but they will definitely find a way to blame JPAL.
Uh if he doesn't cut right here uh the probabilities for May are now still 7%. All right. So so the market still doesn't think May is going to be good enough. May by the way is like a week away. So that makes sense. But June is at 57%. So, it looks like a June cut hopefully is coming on. And if we don't get a June cut, then things are not going to be the best. S&P, look at that.
Up a quarter of a percent. There you go. So far, back to 14. Wow. Palunteer. Are we going to 116? Are we going to 116? Resistance on 116 on Palunteer. 24,219 shares. 24,219 shares. Okay, guys. I obviously need some water. You guys can tell my voice. I'm going to play an update from CNBC real quick and I'm going to get some water. I'll be right back.
Was on tariffs. Megan Cassella, she's at the White House and has some of the highlights for us. Megan, hey, David. Absolutely. As you said, a briefing that focused mostly on tariffs. A rare briefing uh from the Treasury Secretary at the White House here this morning. One piece that is moving the markets this morning was a the White House responding to a report that Amazon is planning to change its prices online to show exactly how much of the price tag is due to tariffs.
Take a listen here to the White House's response. I will not speak to the president's uh relationships with uh Jeff Bezos, but I will tell you u that this is certainly a hostile and political action by Amazon. Now, Besson did not want to offer any specific timeline as far as what to expect on trade negotiations. He was asked about that several times.
He did highlight substantial progress. He said with three countries, that's South Korea, Japan, and India. Previewing some more to expect on that front. And while he didn't want to comment directly on this question we've been asking for days about whether President Trump and President Xi have been in touch specifically about tariffs, he did say this. Take a listen.
Over the next couple of weeks, as as I said, we have 18 important trading relationships. We'll put China to the side. 17 they are in motion. Almost saying the quiet part out loud there. 17 are in motion with one we can assume put to the side is not yet in motion and that's China. Finally, guys, I did get a chance to ask the secretary if he could detail for us just what to expect on the auto tariff relief front, which we are expecting to hear more about later today.
He would not give us those specific details, but said it is coming. This comes as a result, he said, of the president's meeting with both domestic and foreign auto producers, and that we'll see the details of that executive order later this afternoon, guys. Megan, good to good to hear that the trade deals and talks are in motion.
Is the best case scenario. Okay, we'll go back to that in a bit. Uh, but yeah, dude, we're pumping. It's not a crazy pump, but we I mean, this is bad news is good. Look at Nvidia almost 110. almost 110 right here. I mean, I think the market is is calling the bluff now on Pal not cutting because of tariff volatility.
Like, even if the tariff volatility is so aggressive that it could increase inflation, guess what's going to decrease inflation? People not buying anything because a people might not be able to afford stuff, but b if they don't have a job, then they're definitely not going to be able to afford stuff. It won't just be because of higher prices.
It will be because of a lack of disposable income. Uh so as an investor, one of the reasons being in the investor class is so important is because even if Main Street is not doing that well, Wall Street can do well. Now granted, eventually Main Street will catch up to Wall Street, but there there is an argument that if if we cut rates, a lot of these growth stocks that love a low rate environment, they're going to really get momentum.
Um bond yields coming down will also be helping uh equities. And what's going to be very very important right here is if we can actually nail a pseudo soft landing, right? We don't talk about the soft landing anymore because we've kind of had no landing. But if there's a world in which all right, the economy is slowing down but JPAL softens the blow which means the blow is not as aggressive, then from that perspective, we might not have the the worst situation in regards to like this massive economic collapse, which a lot of the bears are predicting will happen.
And they're predicting that because they think the tariffs are so aggressive and or they think that the Fed's not going to be able to time it correctly. The Fed messed up in 2021. I think JPAL doesn't want his legacy to be messing up twice. So, I think the market knows we're going to get a cut.
Think the market knows we're going to get a cut. Um May probabilities are now 9%. We went from 7% to 9%. I don't think we're going to get a cut in May because it's seven days away, but it looks like June feels feels inevitable. Less openings does not mean people are losing jobs. That is fair, but then you have to remember initial jobs claims.
We are uh losing 220,000 jobs or that's not exactly accurate the way I'm framing it, but like 220,000 people are filing for unemployment every week with initial jobless claims. That's okay. If we get to 350 to 375, that's it turns into a recession. But the point is those people just lost 300,000 potential jobs if if if Jolts went from 7.
5 to 7.2. So although people aren't literally losing jobs based on the Jolt data, we'll see on the non-farm payrolls next Friday what that looks like. Uh the the opportunity to apply for those jobs is gone because they don't exist anymore, which eventually can have an impact on the, you know, the broader unemployment rate.
So right here just chilling at 14 bucks, holding up on those levels currently right now. Grab reports at 7:30. So, I'll be live at 7 p.m. I think the market close is just going to go till 9:00 today because we have technical Tuesday. We have grabb earnings. We have so much stuff. So, uh the call starts at 8. I think their numbers are out at 7:30.
So, I'll be live. I'll be live covering it. Non-farm payrolls is this Friday. Really? I think you're right. Oh, yeah. It's the first Friday of May. Yeah, I think. Okay. So, there you go. That's going to be Yeah, that data is going to be very important as well. this Friday. In terms of what we see, Snapchat is also after hours.
Snapchat, Visa, Starbucks, FICO, all of those are after hours. Snapchat right here 897. It was up 5% yesterday, up another 1.5%. Currently, right now, HIMS still holding on to 25%. Did anyone else sell their HIMS today? Did anyone trim a little bit, sell some covered calls, trade in and out of it, or are people just holding and letting it play out? Let me know if anyone if anyone sold him.
Analysts have Robin revenue at 97 million. Is this too high? So, we did an entire podcast on this yesterday. I think the revenue estimates are a bit too aggressive and me, Tanner, and Roy could not get to 917 million. So, either the analysts are thinking that there's parts of the business that are going to be really accelerated that we aren't understanding or the analysts are just being way too aggressive and not conservative enough. I have no idea.
Some estimates are saying 899 million, but from the ones I've been looking at on other sources, they're saying 920. So, realistically, Robin's got Robin has got to put up like 925, I think, to beat all the estimates. And I don't know what in my numbers, I get closer to like best case scenario 9005.
Realistically, I'm at like 8.90. So, we're going to find out. At the end of the day, Robin is also a long position for me, but um the stock has run going into earnings and so we're going to have to see how they perform and if that can match the expectations. Nvidia right here 108.99 Shopify 9864 that is also green on the day.
Isn't GDP data today? I think you're right. I think we get GDP data. Let me confirm um and see that this would be Q1 GDP estimates which Atlanta Fed says is going to be negative. Um I don't see it on my calendar but I think we are getting it either today or tomorrow. We are definitely getting that US data pretty soon. We get mortgage rates tomorrow.
We're definitely getting it this week, dude. I heard we were getting this. Oh, tomorrow. Oh, Atlanta. Yeah. Yeah, you're right. Atlanta GDP update is to is this afternoon. Then PCE and GDPR are tomorrow. All right, you're right. GDP and PCE are tomorrow. And then the Atlanta one is on this afternoon. Hood is wrong about grabb earnings. It's today. It's not on 514.
Whenever you guys look for earnings, don't trust any of the brokerage websites because the brokerages just try to pull in data from their APIs and it's usually wrong. I would just go to their the IR website. So, if you go to Grabs Investor relations, it'll it'll show you the actual date and it is going to be uh April 29th today here that if they reach a deal, we get to 10% still higher tariffs on everyone else because that that's where we are right now.
And there were higher rates announced, but the grace period until they make deals went away. So what is that? Is that what investors should expect if those deals are made? Still 10%. That's what exactly that's what we've been told so far. Kevin Hasset on our air said a few weeks ago he would be very surprised would be a very big deal if that 10% baseline tariff ever comes off.
So this is about those higher tariffs uh that are now on pause. The other thing to keep in mind and that investors need to keep in mind Sarah is that these are going to be agreements in principle or memoranda of understanding. Scott Besson has told us that explicitly that means probably nothing on paper for the first little while.
And when I've talked to lawmakers and to manufacturers, they're worried about the enforcability of this and they're worried about the certainty. They're not ready to make long-term investment decisions just based on an agreement in principle. So while it will be a step forward once we get some of these announced, there's still a long way to go after that.
Yeah, it's a very important point. We'll see if we do get those agreements in principle. The market may react. But to your point, Megan, it's not clear that decision makers will necessarily follow as well. Megan Cassella at the White House. Bent said nothing today. We talked about it, but Bent said nothing that was realistically going to move the markets.
What what moved the markets today was jolts and consumer confidence. And even though both were bad, you're getting green across the board. Now, it's not crazy green, but you are getting some green. SoFi, it looks like 1450 is hard resistance to get over. Uh 15 is I think 168,000 shares.
69 million shares have already been traded up SoFi. Average volume is 51 million. So, I would not be surprised if we get to 100 million shares traded by the end of the day. But, um SoFi right here at 1395. Spotify did indeed miss. They missed EPS by 6%. How bad is the market punishing Spotty? Spotify down 9%. I mean, look, it's reasonable.
If you're going to miss by 50% on EPS, it's down 9%, but it's not a thesis breaker if you're long Spotify. It's it's I think there's some ancillary reasons why they missed EPS, not like any fundamental structural reason. But yeah, if you miss EPS by that much, it's going to go down.
Amazon just said there was never any plan under consideration to show the cost of Trump tariffs on each product on the main website. Oh boy, Amazon coming out and kissing the ring, baby. Hold on. That is interesting. So, the White House was asked about Amazon showing tariff prices today. The White House responded by saying Amazon's being political.
Um, Amazon comes out and says, "Nope, that wasn't us." Let me let me see if I can confirm this. That is I mean, Amazon, right? Maybe there was a plan and Amazon just rolled it back. Or maybe Amazon never had that plan. Yeah, that's the headline. Amazon just said there was never any plan under consideration. Amazon says its discounted hall business has considered listing import price duties on certain products.
Okay, so it sounds like Amazon was going to show certain products having import price duties on discounted quote unquote hall business products. But that doesn't mean every single product on the website was going to show a tariff price associated with it. So it feels like uh the media kind of thought Amazon was going to make this an entire website thing and Amazon and and maybe they were.
I think we need some more details on this, but Amazon right here saying, "Nope, that was never the plan." Is Amazon reversing right here? Amazon. Yeah, look. I mean, it was already reversing from some of the from some of the uh Jolts data, but it was down almost 2.5. Now it's down 083%. Hall is their Teimu competitor. Okay, got it. Thank you for that.
Thank you. Yeah, that that is correct. Hall is their Teimu. That makes a lot more sense actually. Their Teimu competitor, which is literally getting like explicitly everything from China because it's their Teeu competitor, uh would obviously have to show the import prices because Teimu is showing the import prices.
So why wouldn't you, right? If Timu is doing it, Amazon should be doing it as well. But in terms of the main website products, I I I don't know. I kind of believe Amazon here. Seems like this was a misunderstanding. Seems like it they they didn't plan to actually show it on every single product on the website. All right, cool. Not bad.
I mean, Amazon has earnings this week. I think they're going to have a good quarter. Obviously, terror volatility is going to be tough for them to navigate, but AWS still should be phenomenal. And if operating margins get anywhere near 12 13%, right now it's at about 11.1. It was at 7% four quarters ago.
I think the street's going to be happy regardless. Amazon right here 186.4. Pound here 11419. Nvidia still green 108. Snapchat 894. S&P 551 that's still green. Apple 211. The Q's are up a little bit. HIM still up 25%. Tessy down 1.03. Oh, how did we not talk about the Tesla news? Bro, we were so distracted by Bent. forgot to bring up the Tessy news.
Uh, we had an insider buy on Tesla for the first time since 2020 since 20 freaking 20. Since November 2020, that's got to be bullish, right? That like that that's got to be somewhat bullish. Now, I'll give you the reason why that you could you could say this is not bearish or that this is a nothing burger, but I feel like regardless it's bullish.
So, who is the guy who bought? Joseph Gbia, who is the co-founder of Airbnb, he is on the board of Tesla and his uh net worth is $8 billion. He bought 4,000 shares at $256 last week. So, he spent about a million bucks on buying Tesla. This is the first insider buy since November 2020. Having said that, that's like if you're worth half a million dollars, 500,000, that would be equivalent to you buying $62.5 of one share of Tesla stock.
So when you put it into that perspective, uh the buy did not signal a massive level of confidence because it was very inconsequential towards his overall net worth. However, I still think it's kind of bullish uh in in in in the respect of a company that has not seen insider buying for 5 years at prices that were a lot lower than 256.
Not a single person bought at 103, 115, 130, 120, 175 last year in April. this guy's buying at 256. I don't know, dude. I mean, I think there's a hell of an argument for that it's it's just a nothing burger, but there's also an argument for maybe um it's not the worst thing in the world. So, yes, even billionaires value a million dollars.
It's just uh in comparison to its net worth, it's it's it's very small. But still, 4,000 I I mean I it could have been a thousand shares. The idea that he's doing it at 256 after those earnings, which which were really crappy earnings, kind of means there is an insider who thinks that the numbers don't matter. It's about the numbers in the future, which means you have to take a risk and invest based on the future.
Like a lot of people feel about Tesla, which is why Tesla is is trading at the multiple trading at. And it might signal more confidence around Optimus and robo taxi. So that's what I got out of it more so than the actual amount they spend on um on the shares themselves. balance chair 113.60 SoFi 1 or 1380 and then Snapchat 891 S&P basically flat on the day.
Do we have a Tesla headline? Tesla to deliver first semi-truckss within 6 months targeting 50k annual production by 2026 despite tariff headwinds. Huh. Tesla semi. Let me confirm that headline. That's kind of bullish, too, right? The Tesla Semi we haven't heard about in a while. Yeah, that I think that's correct. They want to deliver them by the end of the year and they're targeting 50K annual production by 2026.
They didn't talk a lot about the semis on the uh call. I think they were asked one question about it and they kind of just like waved it off. Um so the semi, the Roadster, a lot of these cars that just have not gone public yet. If we get any updates on those, I think that could be a nice catalyst for Tesla. I'm really curious what's going to be the new affordable vehicle because Elon did say, "Hey, it's not really going to be a new vehicle.
It's just going to be like a more affordable version of our current vehicles." So, I wonder what is an affordable Model Y look like? Like, if it's going to cost 30K flat, what are they going to take out of the Model Y? A, for them to make a profit on it, but b for them to still deliver a a great experience that would rival a Corolla or a Civic, etc.
So I think that's what we're going to be looking for as well on on Tesla. 23% on HIMS that 135 that's still up right now. Tesla down about 1.4. PayPal flat on the day. UPS down about point4. Royal Caribbean down about 3%. Wow, that one reversed. That was pretty damn green. I guess consumer confidence market might be thinking is bad for cruise lines.
Robin Hood basically flat right here. And then Microsoft 393 on the day as as well. UNH's dropped below 415. Holy crap, dude. United Healthcare. Wow. Down one. That's that that's got to be hurting the Dow Jones today. That's one of the biggest holdings in the Dow Jones. Yeah, Dows is flat because of that.
I don't think United deserve to get hit as bad as they got hit on their earnings guidance last week. And I think they're kind of sandbagging. But I also think that, you know, if you if you meaningfully decrease guidance, even if it's temporary, that's that's going to hurt your stock. Grab right here down about 74% currently right now.
Someone's saying, "A commit, are you excited for Grab earnings? Do you think it'll do well?" Here's what I'll say about Grab because I know the actual question behind that is, "Hey, should I be buying Grab right now?" I think this stock is undervalued and I think the stock is closer to 10 in 2027. Having said that, I I I I I don't know the company as well as I know Hood or Pounder.
And even on those companies, I'm still, you know, usually wrong in terms of what happens to the stock price on earnings. If you're buying at 472, you're buying a company that's trading at 30% cash, just became profitable, free cash flow is exploding, adjusted. Ebida is exploding, and the qualitative thesis is I think they're becoming a monopoly in Southeast Asia.
That 470 could turn into 420 today if there's some number the street doesn't like. So, I think if you're buying it for a swing trade or something, like the reason I'm buying Snapchat on a swing trade is because I genuinely believe we're going to see 10 11 bucks. I could be wrong, but I believe in that. On Grab, do I genuinely believe we're going to see five, six bucks after hours? No.
I think it's possible because I think the earnings will be good, but I I've seen Grab tank on earnings if the numbers are a little bit off. And so the margin of safety isn't really there. On Snap, I I just don't think we're going below eight bucks based on the indicators I looked at.
And I think it's realistic to say it can go to 10, 11 bucks. So, I'm comfortable taking the bet there. If you want to swing trade grab, I think you just got to be ready to potentially DCA because the earnings might not be uh as incredible as needed, which in my opinion simply means we need to guide to 500 million in adjusted EVA. That's what my valuation model uses to get to $10 by 2027.
If they don't do that and they continue to sandbag, then we're gonna have some issues. So, yeah, you should only be buying it if you are kind of long-term confidence on this because I don't know if the swings are going to work. Having said that, there's a lot of call activity on that $5 call by the end of May.
But having also said that, well, there was also a lot of $6 call activity before the last earnings. And last earnings, it was down 15%. So, I mean, realistically, you got to just have conviction here if you're going to buy Grab before earnings, but for long-term investors, I think 470 is not the the the worst price to to get it.
Uh, what about First Solar? So, I don't know much about their business, but Nphase like got hammered on earnings. NPA is 4642 basically at all-time lows right now. Um, first solar in the solar space. I know that's a still a bit of a yeah 52 week low on Nphase right here 4483. I know first solar is a bit more commercial than residential but still um if solar demand is not doing that well for solar down about 1% right here then that could also hurt the earnings.
So not sure exactly what to think of solar but the overall solar ecosystem is not that exciting from a narrative perspective anymore. What's the long thesis on Grab? It's pretty simple. I think they will be one of the biggest super apps in Southeast Asia, financial services, ride hailing, deliveries, and a variety of other verticals that they're ingratiating themselves in.
Um, look, I I would encourage people to just read some articles on Grab and like just like go a little bit more deeper on what these guys are doing. Watch some interviews with the CEO, the CFO. I mean, these guys have a 20-year vision to become a massive, massive company. They just ended up IPOing at a really crappy time in 2021.
This company was worth like 60 billion. They were doing like a billion in revenue and losing $2 billion every year. It was just like it was a ridiculous bubble. They've been punished for four years. But all the metrics I track are going up and to the right. And so usually when that happens and you have this massive consolidation, you tend to have share price follow those metrics along with the fact that I like the founder CEO and I like the the rate of innovation.
They just held their first in dude. Southeast Asian companies don't hold investor days like Robin Hood Gold or Pounder AIP. Grab did that and I talked to a lot of people from Malaysia and Singapore. They're like, "Dude, we are not used to companies holding an event and broadcasting it to people about their new products.
Like, you don't do that in Southeast Asia." But Grab is doing that because I think they have a lot of stuff to show off. So, from that perspective, that's the long thesis. Question is just if the numbers are going to be good enough to affirm that thesis tonight. S&P 500 right here at 549. That's down about half a percent.
Currently, right now, oh no, we got the crypto bots in the chat. Sorry guys. Let me see if I can ban some of these. If there's any mods right here, please ban them. I love how you broke down the XA184Z project in your video. Can't wait to see it skyrocket. I just I just YouTube's got to do something about this, dude. YouTube's got to do something.
Like, at some point, YouTube cannot keep saying we have the best AI in the world and not do anything about this. I mean, this is getting ridiculous. Hopefully, they do something soon. Speaking of, of course, tariffs, GM shares are under pressure this morning. Uh you just heard Megan discussing of course the possibility of a roll back at least on some tariffs involving auto parts. Philippo's here.
He's got more on GM's quarter and what we may hear perhaps from the Trump administration. I guess GM's trying to figure it out as well right now. Phil, everybody's trying to figure it out. David, let's start first off with what we got from General Motors this morning, which was the Q1 results. Uh which is really not moving the stock a whole lot.
They did beat on the top and the bottom line. They also had a North America EBIT of 3.28 28 billion down from the first quarter of last year with an adjusted margin of 7.9%. What is everybody talking about when it comes to GM or really any of the automakers right now? Well, it's the fact that they don't have much certainty and because of that, General Motors said today, you know what, we're going to move our analyst call to Thursday and they are expected to give updated guidance for 2025 at that time.
Now, keep in mind, they did have guidance back in January. They say today, "No, you can't even count on that because of the tariffs. Everything has changed." And with regard to the tariffs, we heard from Secretary Bessant, as you guys were just talking about just a few minutes ago. He said auto relief would go towards reshoring manufacturing.
He wants full expensing of equipment or he promised this full expensing of equipment, factories will be retroactive to January 20th. there is the incentive especially for suppliers and he says they want to give automakers a pass to create jobs. The challenge guys is this. The automakers are looking at parts tariffs that kick in on May 3rd.
Even with some of the adjustments that may be announced this afternoon or expected to be announced this afternoon, they're still going to face higher costs. And if you are a supplier right now, you're looking for some certainty. You don't have it with US MCA. Yes, the administration would like suppliers to move their plants back to the US as well as automakers to move production to the US, but without US MCA certainty, what I hear back from people in the industry is, I'm not making that move.
It's too costly. I need something more than simply a promise that things will improve. And that's basically why I think the Wall Street Journal article came out yesterday about Trump um getting ready to reduce auto tariffs. And he's speaking in Michigan tonight. Michigan's a big auto manufacturing state, so there is a world where I think we get some auto reliefs tonight by Trump potentially making that tariff announcement of reductions, but we're going to have to see if he does it later today. Let's get uh to one of my
favorite analysts. We haven't heard from her in so long, JP Morgan's Gabriella Santos. Let's see what she has to say about the markets and if she continues to be bullish. Head of the key tech earnings and economic data that we're going to hear from this week. joining us. Gabriela Santos is the chief market strategist for the Americas at JP Morgan Asset Management.
We got a lot of earn we got a lot of numbers including jobs of course on Friday. What are you expecting to see this week both on the earnings front and maybe some of the government numbers we're going to hear? So we do get those job uh report numbers for April uh on Friday. We think nothing too dramatic happening.
Little bit of a a slowdown to about 130,000. There are a lot of unknowns around immigration uh as well as federal layoffs, but overall it's still too early, we think, to tell the effect of some of these bigger policy changes we got in April. It seems more likely to us. We'll have to wait until May, until June to see that data to be able to really calibrate uh our expectations. Similar for earnings.
Uh so far it's been quite a good earning season, but companies are feeling a little bit frozen as to the real clear guidance that they're giving us. And as a result, we haven't seen research analysts take down their earnings expectations very much for the year, basically in line with average. So it's also going to take us a little bit longer to understand. Sorry.
You think that's a mistake that the analysts have not taken down the numbers? Well, we think every This woman does not blink and I love it. I love She does not blink. I don't think she knows how to blink, and I love it. You guys are saying she has crazy eyes. I It It I don't Maybe I'm attracted to it, but I I like it when she doesn't blink.
It's It's pretty damn cool to me. Everyone knows they're not the right numbers. 10% is what we came into the year. It's still generally Isn't that a problem? If everybody knows that they don't have the right numbers, isn't that Isn't somebody not doing what they're supposed to be doing? No.
I think you get these during these big moments of uncertainty during COVID or even during the first trade war. It took us some time to actually understand how much revenues would be hit, margins and then the bottom line. So what happens in the interim the multiple does the heavy lifting. So you get that multiple contraction and then the market's already doing the work.
Exactly. And you know, it depends exactly how much, but I think that's part of the reason why it seems unlikely the that we unwind more than this half that we've already unwind of the biggest sell-off exactly because we've yet to actually see the impact on earnings and on the economy. We all know the direction is softer.
It's just a bit tough to actually calibrate that. And so the next 100 days are going to be really really important to understand the base case for tariffs, the offsets from fiscal, the response from from the monetary side and what's going on. What is your sense? Look, there's a whole bunch of hedge fund guys and analysts that have paid enormous amounts of money to satellite providers to look at shipping uh coming from China, ships that apparently have nothing on them, ships that never went, all of this.
And there's this view, I don't know if it's become the consensus view, that somehow we're going to get to the end of May and all of a sudden you're going to walk into all of these stores and they're just not going to have the merchandise you want. Okay, before she speaks, I want to give my thoughts on this and she see if uh she agrees with me.
So, there is real shipping data in ports in uh Los Angeles showing that uh Chinese ships have come down 44% year-over-year and that's happening in the month of April and as a result, we're going to have less inventories. There's two nuances to this. Number one, yes, that's effect of tariffs because we're going to have, you know, people aren't importing that much if you're going to have to pay 145% on Chinese goods.
So, yes, we're going to have less inventory. However, in Q4, companies pre-ordered a lot of things in order to prepare for this exact moment, which are the tariffs. So, I don't think we're going to have less inventories in a month, but in a couple months, if this trade war doesn't die down, then yes, we will have less inventory.
So, I think we're going to be okay in the month of May because of all the pre-orders in Q4, which actually was the reason why inflation spiked up, but if we don't end this trade war soon, then eventually we will have an issue and all of a sudden, not only are then of the merchandise, the replacement merchandise is going to cost more.
Is that your expectation? I think it's time is running out to see a lessening of the tariffs on China. And I think it's a little bit like it was in CO in the sense that we're all looking and and earning for some highfrequency data to get that understanding ahead of the numbers knowing that there's a lag. Um, and I think it caught a lot of attention and it should over the weekend that we saw a 40% peakto trough drop uh in shipping from China to the US because the tariffs are simply prohibitive.
Secretary Scott Besson, Treasury Secretary, mentioned last week, everyone knows these 157% headline tariffs are unsustainable, but we really need to see them actually come down pretty quickly before it's we're not talking about higher prices and companies figuring out ways to pass that on. We're talking about actual disruption to the supply chain.
And especially remember China uh has a pretty big control over a pretty important part of a lot of what we import from it. It's not easy to substitute overnight. What is the the wisdom inside of the House of the House of Morgan, if you will, when it comes to the way Trump will ultimately deal with tariffs? Meaning, some people believe that there really is a put and that he's just going to effectively not do all these tariffs because he's going to realize that the market and bond market and everybody else doesn't like it.
And then if you read the Atlantic magazine yesterday, he says, "I've had these views for 30 to 40 years and I'm going to do it and this is what I'm doing. And if you don't understand that, you don't know what's going on. Yeah. And I think it's all about the magnitude of the tariffs.
So it seems like we've gotten about three moderations in the overall headline level of tariffs overnight news of uh uh an upcoming one on auto part imports. Um so that's taken down the headline tariff rate from the worst case, the highest since the 1900s to the current the highest since the 1940s. So I think there have been some moderation.
We've taken some of the worst case off the table. That's good news. The market has recovered half of what it had sold off. However, our base case for the actual tariff rate we get was our worst case coming into the year. Meaning still a pretty high tariff rate that remains those 10% universal tariffs as well as a havinging of the China tariffs which are unsustainable, but that still leaves us at about 60%.
So that's why I think there's low conviction on the actual forecast for the economy and earnings. That doesn't mean there's nothing to do. So what we've been seeing our clients do is focus a lot more on rebuilding a core allocation. So what's in the core? What's in the core allocation? And is the mag 7 have anything to do with it? And this is really interesting because I think this we're all coming into this big change in policy coming after a pretty exceptionally exceptional two years, right? for equity performance, specifically growth in the US,
specifically the mag 7. So that was always going to normalize somewhat. We just got a catalyst from policy and from deepseek Monday. So what it means is a lot of our clients are thinking about more neutral allocation equities, bonds. They're thinking about 5050 value growth. They're really thinking about that international piece again.
And within the bond sign, it's rebuilding core fixed income because things So, I mean, basically what she's saying right here, and again guys, sorry for all the bots in the chat. Uh, I know mods, you're working overtime right here, but YouTube's got to do something about this.
Basically, what she's saying right here is, hey, we have maybe a month or two months until the market completely says this is an absolute train wreck. They already said it was a train wreck on April 3rd up until April 8th. And then Trump uh blinked even if Santos doesn't blink and we took back the 145% tariffs. We had a 90-day pause yada yada.
We got we got some progress on deals even if we haven't announced deals. And so the market's happy again in terms of 550 on the S&P versus 4,800 on the S&P. But we've got a couple months of the market I think maybe and maybe even a couple weeks, right? like we don't know in this market of actually giving the ability to have a solid foundation until they decide to to say you know what enough is enough and we're just not going to be buying equities in an uncertain environment where we have no clarity on trade deals which is fair.
So she's bullish. She's just kind of saying you're not going to see higher stock prices until we actually get some real trade deals done and some actual policies uh meaningfully implemented when it comes to the tariffs. Also, I don't know why you guys are saying her eyes are weird, dude. That's cool.
Not being able to blink for six minutes straight is bullish, bro. Not being able to blink for freaking 6 and a half minutes to me is bullish. Steve says he wants to come on the show to talk about SoFi. I'm going to try to call him up in a second. Let's get into that Amazon coverage and then Oh, never mind. Steve is on the phone.
Let's bring him on. Steve, good morning. How are you? And it sells all And what sells off? Little company that thinks it's a technology company. Okay, hold on. It's not selling off that aggressively. Where is SoFi? SoFi talking about Where is it at? Yeah, it's up 4%. It was up. It was up 9%. It's up 4%.
I don't think that's crazy. Yeah, it's selling off. Well, yes, it is selling off. Just like Ken said it would. I texted Ken this morning. I said blowout quarter. He's like, it's gonna sell off. Um, I don't think you heard the call, but I did not hear the call. I was going to listen to it. I figure I'd call you for a few minutes before I get myself together and get out of here.
I got to go to a meeting now, so I'm going to listen to it in the car. Oh, wait. You mean you actually have work? You actually have a job. Yeah, I've been working all morning. That's why I didn't do anything this morning. I got up and started working. I I just want you to say that for people to know that like, you know, you can't just literally stream with me all day because I think that's what they expect.
No, when you wake up to emails about licenses that whatever there there's always issues. They get fixed, but there's it's always something. All right. So, raw reaction, triple beat, raise guidance. What do you think of this quarter? People are going to think that I I had thank God I did not get as close on some of the numbers, but on the SoFi Weekly I said that they were going to come in with 211 million on adjusted EVA and they came in with 210.
It's pretty damn good. Pretty damn good. I was off on revenue and net income. I said 784 on revenue. I think they came in where did they come in on revenue? 771. I was off on that and I said 61 million net income and they blew net income out of the water. It was a good quarter. I don't think anyone can objectively say it was a bad quarter. It was a great quarter.
It was a great quarter. Triple D raise guidance again just like we said they would. I mean everything is bullish about this. It's just the only question I have is did they discuss the tech platform and RPs in the Q&A? I didn't hear the Q&A because I went to Bent, but okay. I mean, if they did address it, there's not much to address.
It's a 10% growth with a lower product with 131 million in revenue, which is like basically zero growth um quarter over quarter. So, all right. So, here we go. They said and we recently signed a deal with Merkantil BCO which offers personal and business banking services in Panama and we'll use our cyber bank digital banking platform.
We are pleased with the demand from new client opportunities for the tech platform business and expect these wins and others in the RFP process to have an impact on our revenue in 2026 and beyond. So they're basically saying that they think they're going to win a few RFPs this year for the tech platform which will be accredited in 2026.
That's all they gave us on the earnings call when I type in RFI. Yeah. I mean the the the tech hybrid multiple is not going to come from that Galileo platform. No, this is a banking company right now. This is a financial banking company and there's nothing wrong with that. There's nothing wrong with that. But if they want to be considered a tech company, I think a third of their revenue have and a third of their profits have to come from the tech side at a very minimum.
Otherwise, I don't know how this is a tech company. Look, it's fair. I mean, I think it's also selling off a little bit with the macro, but this is this is what happens every time. Like, you get a pump, but the market then realizes where is the the tech multiple coming from? It's not coming from lending and it's not coming from financial services.
How How about Amazon? How about Amazon? How about Amazon? Like I'm I'm not happy as a shareholder with that. So, uh I don't know if you got the latest update, but Amazon's denying that they were ever going to delist the tariff prices on their products. They denied that. They denied that just now. Okay.
So, how did this even get started? because they have a competitor to Teeu called Hall and they were going to list the tariff prices on those products which is what Teimu is doing. So that makes sense, right? But not on the main page website and so yeah. And what did the sense say? The sense said Amazon is political and they're partnering with Chinese propaganda firms to make these arguments.
So uh yeah, that's why Amazon took a hit, but it's recovering now. In terms of uh what Bass said, well, he didn't say anything, dude. He really didn't say anything. I mean, he said that he said retail's buying the dip because they trust Trump even if hedge funds don't, which was interesting. And he said if the Chinese don't make a deal, they're going to lose 10 million jobs.
And then he reiterated we want to replace income taxes with long-term tariff revenue. And that's it. Tell us what you got. I wish they didn't say that. I just think they're realistically not going to do that. So every time they do it, it's it's like nonsense. Yeah. I just I don't think it's realistic. I think that they would have a much better I think they would have more credibility if they just said, "Look, our long-term goal for the second half of this administration is to cut wasteful spending with Doge, increase revenue from tariffs, and we'll get to a point
where we'll be able to offer each individual taxpayer a much larger standard deduction. than what they currently get now. Correct. And leave it at that. Yeah, I agree. I agree. By the way, Wells Fargo just announced a $40 billion stock buyback. They should buy SoFi instead. Do you would you want a company to take SoFi out at these levels? Yes.
Take me out of my misery. What What do you think? Like another bank should just acquire them? Yeah. Take them out of my misery. We're going to use that money for something else at this point. What? What? Okay. So, SoFi is worth uh SoFi's worth 13 billion, how much would you think they should be? Or 15 billion, how much do you think they should be sold for? Look, if somebody bought them out for 20 a share or so, I don't think that anybody would be that mad in the short term. I got to go though.
I'll call you later. All right. Thanks, Steve. Appreciate it. All right. Well, that's what we got from Steve's perspective on SoFi. kind of the same thing he's been saying for a while, which is that the tech platform's lack of growth is what is stopping it from achieving the multiple that uh people are looking for.
Someone says, "I don't understand why Steve just doesn't sell if he hates so much." You know, I've asked him that question and he he still really does believe in Notto. He was one of the first people who got me to start listening to Nto's uh interviews from a couple years ago. There's this big Stanford keynote he gave that was amazing which is so ironic because it's not like NTO is an introverted guy but now he's not doing any podcasts even though he used to do them before but um but I I think he believes in Nto he believes that there is a world in which
Nto figures this out and he also believes and and by the way NTO is figuring it out the company's growing it was an incredible quarter it's just the one thing that they need to have a multiple expand which is technology I know that's a very vague term but that's not being interpreted by the market as meaningful technology on their on their share price and and Google's struggling through the same thing, right? Google needs an AI narrative and they're not getting an AI narrative even though Google keeps executing. So I think at
the end of the day good earnings prevail but uh the problem is you know Google's actually showing AI growth with Gemini and Gemini Robotics and Whimo etc. Sofa is not showing tech growth unless you believe the loan platform is a technology product which yes theoretically it is you or you can argue that it it becomes a technology product in terms of its margins and it its ability to not have the types of risks that normal lending products uh tend to put on the balance sheet but that core juicy SAS revenue that creates a
multiple SoFi is just not growing in that spot and I think that's why the street is is discounting it at these levels. Uh here's that Amazon coverage where Amazon is uh updating their stance on these on these tariffs on on consumer products on the auto tariff relief front. Now I can confirm according to a White House official exactly what the president will be signing this afternoon.
There are going to be two parts to this. Okay, so not only Amazon, there's uh breaking news on auto tariffs. Okay, so the Wall Street Journal article came out yesterday about auto tariffs. They are now confirming that Trump will be signing something on auto tariffs before he goes to Michigan tonight. and then I'll get the the Amazon coverage. Auto tariff relief.
The first is a dstacking they're calling of tariffs. This means that for auto companies that are already subject to the 25% tariff on all autos and auto parts that remains in place, but they are no longer having to pay anything that might overlap with that. Mostly the steel and aluminum tariffs as well as the Canada and Mexico tariffs.
None of those will apply to the auto companies. Any this is exactly what the Wall Street Journal said yesterday. So whatever sources they had were correct. This is pretty much exactly what he's doing before that Michigan rally today longer. The other part of this is a rebate. This is going to be applied upfront for the next two years to auto companies to sort of offset the impact of the tariffs.
They'll get 3.75% back in the first year, 2 and a.5% back in the second year. And that's going to be based on the retail value of the car and the percentage of it that's that's Americanmade. So trying to offset again that tariff impact. And it's a way of sort of rewarding these companies that commerce secretary Howard Lutnik is out with a statement saying that this is giving these companies some runway in exchange for cooperating so far with the administration and trying to move as much of their manufacturing back to the
US as possible. And again guys, it is a busy day for news. So I also want to touch on one other thing which is Amazon. We were speaking about this a few minutes ago as well and the White House responding to a report about Amazon. Uh the report initially said that Amazon was going to start adjusting its tar its prices online to show the exact amount which was due to tariffs.
An Amazon spokesperson now responding to CNBC saying quote the team that runs our ultra- lowcost Amazon hall store has considered listing import charges on certain products. This was never a consideration for the main Amazon site and nothing has been implemented on any Amazon properties.
So guys, we had seen uh some impact in the markets on Amazon stock this morning after the White House called this a hostile and political act. Amazon now saying this is not under consideration for the main site. Guys, yeah. Uh Megan, um I'm happy for that followup as well given we were focused on that uh at the top of the nine o'clock hour when when those comments were made uh by Carolyn Levit.
Where's the money going to come from for this rebate for uh for the automakers? Do we know? We don't know yet. It could be that some of the uh tariff revenue that they've been talking about how much that is that that is some of what's going to be applied for the rebate 3.75% doesn't sound like a huge amount but it is substantial for these companies.
It is only two years for this rebate but the money has to come from somewhere. I will say we are expecting a lot more details on this from the White House in the next hour or two as well as later today uh once the president signs the executive order. So more to come. A worthwhile question in the meantime.
Yeah, kind of a mixed reaction. And I would think this would be market friendly, right, for the automakers ultimately getting some relief there. Um, but GM's still lower after results today. You know, my take from this, very simple. I said this on the daily recap yesterday. Uh, Trump is folding on a lot of the tariffs he has imposed because they're not sustainable.
You can't have Ford and Stellantist and GM, these like core American companies that employ a lot of Trump voters laying off people. Like, you just can't do that. Every president that I've seen, at least over the past 10 years, makes it a priority to talk to Detroit and and and the auto sector in Michigan in a in a in a really meaningful way because that is one of the parts of America that employs hundreds of thousands, if not millions of people, and that's been like that for the past 50 years.
So for for Ford to say we got to lay off 10,000 people because the tariffs, like there's no way Trump's going to allow that. He's just not going to allow it h to happen. So whatever negotiating leverage he thinks he gets from imposing auto tariffs. I think he's willing to take some losses on like um cheap goods from China on Amazon, but I do not think he's willing to sit with the narrative that his tariffs cause someone in in in Detroit to lose their job, which is why they're going to get rolled back. And so
my belief now is that the overall tariffs, this 10% universal flat rate on every country, I still think is going to 5% or zero by the end of the year. I really think it's going to be hard to have 10% on Japan and get Japan to give us meaningful concessions, which um which is like which is probably why they put that 10% to try to get some some like negotiating leverage.
But at the end of the day, I think that's kind of how how they're going to have to use the tariffs to to bring it back down. There's just no way you can imagine that it stays the way it is because companies will lay people off and I don't think Trump's going to want that. Someone's asking right here, what is the purpose of level one options on SoFi and why are people so desperate for it? So, uh, level one options implies the ability to sell options, aka, um, covered calls and and cash cured puts, which we've talked about a lot on
the channel. I have a options uh 101 10 or 2011 series on this channel. If you type in emit options 101, you'll see the the we've done about six hours of content. We're going to do 301 with Jason soon. And so the point is a lot of sophisticated investors want to be able to make income off their investments either through covered call premium or through put premium.
And in order to do that, you have to be able to sell options. It's it's a relatively simple thing I think for SoFi to build, which is why people get annoyed that why do like the crappiest brokerages allow you to be able to do something and SoFi, which is supposed to be this one-stop shop for financial resources, not even have it built into its its ecosystem.
although it looks like it's coming soon based on some of the job descriptions that we've seen. Now, in defense of SoFi, they don't really make money off their brokerage app. So, they don't like desperately need it. The problem is, and this has always been my issue about SoFi and this whole narrative as a tech company, and you know, not says he wants to be the a top 15 tech company by market cap. These are his words.
If you're not doing something for your users and you're a consumer tech company, even if you don't make money off of that, if you're not going to innovate for your users, then like you're not a tech company. Robin Hood doesn't make money off a lot of of the different random features that they put out there, but they do it to deepen user engagement and keep their customers happy.
Like I don't think Robin's making a ton of money from tax lots, but people have been begging for tax lots for a long time because some people want to sell shares that they bought years ago versus that they bought recently or vice versa. And so Robin Hood, they took some time, but they eventually came out with the feature and now everyone has it.
So I I think if everyone wants option selling on SoFi and they don't allow it because of their priorities are, you know, somewhere else where where where the priorities probably should be because the business makes more revenue on that. But then the core branding of the company is one-stop shop. And then when I get to the shop, there's barely any milk or eggs or bread, which is kind of what I need as an investor, especially if I'm more sophisticated.
I'm selling options. then I'm just not going to shop at that shop. And and as a result, there's going to be other countries or other companies. I said countries because we're talking about tariffs, but other companies that are going to be able to to take away uh from from that user base. And that's what Robin Not has basically done.
So, wow. SoFi losing a lot of the pump. It's barely up 3% right here. 1360 from 1450. Macro is not really tanking. S&P is green. S&P's high of day. So, this is a SoFi thing right now. This is not a macro thing. S&P, look at that. I5294. Um, is that the highest we've had all week? That is Yeah, that's Dude, this is higher than Hold on.
No, let me I I think it's a little bit lower than Yeah, it's Dude, we got to 553.55 yesterday and then I don't think we got above that last week. Last week we got to 550. Yeah, this is this is literally the the the the um not only high of day, but it's a April high and definitely a two week high since we've started this kind of 5day green momentum on on the S&P.
So, if the macro is holding up right here as identified by the S&P, but so is now 1350, that is people selling so that has nothing to do with the macro. Hims right here up 18% again. Hims was up 40%. Hims also selling off. This one seems more reasonable. people taking profits right here which is normal.
Tesla down about 1.2% Nvidia slightly green. Q's are up.3 which is a new high of day for the Q's. Palanteer or we have 1131 114 we are at 11491 trying to make its way back to 115. So yeah that's a that's a sofa I think right now if it's if it's getting hit again great quarter just the narrative not exactly the best narrative.
I will continue to hold my options. I mean, I still think there's a shot we get to 20 by the end of the year, and I think the risk is asy asymmetric, but um we're just going to have to see if the narrative can change. All right, Atlanta Fed, I think that should be out soon. Last time they had -2.4% on GDP. Today, they said negative -2.7.
Negative -2.7. So, that's a little bit more than what they had last week. Um, unless anything meaningfully changes from the Atlanta Fed's methodology, we are going to have our first quarter of negative GDP growth in two and a half years and then if we get that second quarter, we are technically in a recession. So, I wonder how the Trump administration is going to navigate the the the messaging of this.
Whoever is going to be doing the messaging, I hope it's not Lutnik. that would be nice. But um no, this is economy that's not growing anymore. Now granted, a lot of this is due to imports and we imported a lot in Q4. We didn't import as much in Q1 uh because of the tariff preparation. So maybe the Trump administration is just going to say, hey, we did a lot of imports in Q4.
People aren't importing in Q1 due to tariffs, yada yada. Therefore, GDP growth is not really slowing down. It's just kind of it was frontr run already in Q4. I guess that's a somewhat reasonable argument you can make, but the headline is going to be negative growth. And you know, whether it's a Democrat or Republican, everyone has to deal with the headline.
And if the headline is negative growth, I don't think people are going to want that much of the nuance. The average person is not going to care about the imports in Q1 that were more aggressive. You know, like they're just going to want to know like, hey, why are we not growing? So, that's going to be important to see what the messaging of this ends up. It's Biden's fault. Yeah.
Oh my god. There's going to have to be a way they blame Biden for this. Oh my goodness, dude. It might end up doing that. They might end up I mean, like, what how what else are they going to say? Are we in for a recession this year? If we have two quarters of negative G GDP growth, that is a recession.
Now, it might not be some catastrophic recession just like in 2022, we had a negative quarter negative two consecutive quarter uh GDP growth recession, which Janet Yellen tried to say it's not a recession. No, it's a recession. Like, it is a like I hope doesn't try to change the definition of a recession. Like I hope they try to at least agree that the technical definition is that we will have a recession, but it just might not be as bad of a recession if we can pick up the growth and get rid of the tariffs by by Q3. This is Michelle Obama's
fault. Oh my gosh. Um, coreweave is up 10%. Why is coreweave up 10% today? S&P look pounder at 115. Uh S&P still holding on nicely. Wow. S&P high of up almost half a percent. 553. That means how much are we up from the absolute lows? 553 minus 480 divided by 480. We're up 15% from the lows of April 8th in a month.
In less than a month. I mean, if you sold at 4,800, it was just it's just it's just tough having to live with that. But if you got in anytime shortly after that, you've still been able to do very well. And if you bought the dip at 4,800, you've done pretty well. So, Palenter right here 115. Let me check resistance again for 116 on Palunteer.
We got to 1582, but we couldn't get above that. Um 116. I still think there's about 20,000 shares there. 34,000 shares. 34,000. All right, cool. Not too bad. 34,000. Meta is introducing a Meta AI app. Okay, finally. I think we've been waiting for this for a while given they have like 500 million monthly active users of Meta AI already.
So, this is going to be their version of Grock and GPT. Um, well, I will download it. I will be interested to use it. By the way, guys, GPT, it's gotten really fast and I've started to honestly use it more than Grock. I'm sorry. I love Grock. I pay for Grock. I don't pay for GPT yet, so I'm not paying the advanced version, but even the free version, it's fast, bro.
Like yesterday, I was using it and I couldn't believe it was like milliseconds of how fast it was. So, I have a thousand shares of Snap for earnings. I have a thousand shares of Snap for for the swing trade. Um, so GPT is continuing to get better and better. And I'm curious to see Meta AI.
I have no loyalty to any of these LLMs. If Meta AI is better than all of them, then I'll switch. Probably won't pay for it though because I already paid for Twitter. But that and that's why I use Grock because I pay for Twitter premium and so the Grock comes with it. So I use it. But GBT is getting really fast, dude. Really, really fast.
And I think Elon knows this, which is why they're getting ready to buy another 20 billion worth of GPUs because they got to keep building the architecture to scale to get to hypersonic speeds when it comes to AGI and so does OpenAI and so does anthropic and so do the hyperscalers which is why I think Nvidia is stupidly undervalued but and so does Meta you know like like all of this at the like yes the models are commoditized but the models still need GPUs to be able to run and as a result I think we should hopefully be able to make up for
the loss of China revenue in Nvidia um with with increased domestic demand. Average for Snap is 870. 870. I'm looking to get out at 11. I'm looking for 11. I'm not trying to be too optimistic, but I do think this thing could hit 1213 after hours and be a a nice trade. like I think they would have to really mess up to have a bad earnings, but it who knows it could also go to seven or six and I'm bag holding it.
Um, so that's why it's just a thousand shares, but I I think the downside is limited. And if they really do fall below seven, then this would have to be the worst earnings that Snapchat's had in a while because again, we haven't seen those prices since 2023. So the riskreward looks a bit more to the upside here. Shopify 9884, Nvidia 10881, Meta 550, and then Pounder still holding on right there nicely at 115 on uh on the day.
Meta integrated their AI chat and WhatsApp here in Ireland. Not sure if another country have this as well. I don't think the US has it yet. They're probably beta testing it into Ireland. But um yeah, the WhatsApp integration of AI, I think, is going to be gigantic for Meta. like WhatsApp. Dude, do you guys know during the uh during the during the World Cup, WhatsApp had 25,000 messages sent per second.
Like I don't think we all understand the scale of how and Meta is really not monetizing WhatsApp yet. It's primarily Instagram and Facebook. So I think that's a lever that they can turn on pretty easily. uh it is not um it is not uh uh uh in jeopardy like Google search which again I think those fears are overblown but like it's not really like what's going to replace WhatsApp you know there's other messaging apps out there but in terms of like LLM's taking away from blue links like that narrative doesn't exist for Instagram or WhatsApp now is Facebook an app that's
kind of dying to a lot of people in the United States sure but around the world four billion people every day get their news from Facebook even if we don't check Facebook anymore So, that one is still relevant. Instagram is is is is very relevant with Gen Z, millennials, and then WhatsApp is is is the go-to messaging app for people across the world.
So, right now, 1347 holding just above 2%. Um, so I think that can definitely be a a tailwind for them. Yes, there's Telegram, yes, there's Signal, and those are big companies, but you know, WhatsApp is different, bro. WhatsApp is freaking different. and every kind of like family group chat especially in India and Brazil all of them I don't know how Meta did it how they freaking hacked into these countries and like got every single person like it's not even an understatement I'm going to say almost every single person in Brazil and India
are using WhatsApp but they figured it out Zucks did a great job scaling it and as a result they've been able to uh maintain momentum so I think Meta AI could be very successful but it it comes down to how well is the the actual AI compared to GPT. Speaking of meta, uh Zucks did some interviews yesterday with Theo Vaughn, who is a uh I would say rather funny guy, a comedian, and the uh the let's just say some of these clips were really funny.
So, let me play a couple of these clips right here. Zucks again, he knows how to do a lot of media to get more exposure, but he did Theo yesterday. Oh, where was your first date that you took uh Priscilla to? Do you remember? Yeah, for for Priscilla that was uh we went to this place, Berdex. It was um Berdick. Berdict LA Berdict.
This uh like chocolate place, hot chocolate. Um that was that was pretty good. Um and was it just like you went and sat down or you Is it like a restaurant or just a place to get? Yeah, it's like a little coffee place. Little like hot chocolate type coffee place. It's um Yeah. No, it's nice.
They they they make good chocolate. They make these little mice things. Oh yeah. Yeah. Chocolate mice. So now every year on our anniversary, we get some mice. Oh yeah, good deal. Oh yeah. Nothing like a couple of tech emperors are enjoying a couple of mice. You feel me? I think that's very normal. That's very normal to me, dude. Um, sorry.
That just made me laugh, dude. I'm sorry, Mark. That just made me freaking laugh. It's just crazy to think it was it was just there were so many moments in this interview going back and forth. It was hilarious. I'm happy Zucks did it. The von is a big platform. So being able to get that distribution on that audience is is pretty strong.
But um yeah, there were many awkward moments in this interview, but it's kind of funny because it's like Zuck being awkward is now a meme, right? Because like people think of him as awkward. Even though he has reshaped his image from like being a full robot, but uh some of the awkwardness is just funny to a lot more people.
Hims right here still up 20%. SoFi up 2%. Meta up a third. Coreweave up 9%. Dude, I don't know why Cororeweave is up 9%. I'll try to find if there's any headlines there, but Cororeweave really getting some momentum. And then pounder 115.28 currently right now. [Music] Um, don't see the core headline. Let's see if there's anything else.
There is a Russia headline right here. It looks like Russia is demanding control of uh four Ukraine territories in their ceasefire deal. I don't think Zalinski is going to be happy about that. So, I don't know if we're any closer to a deal, but it does look like Russia Russia is trying to impose some more demands on control over territory.
Yeah, I don't see the core headline. I don't see anything here. Uh yeah, there's no re It's up. It's up 9% right here. Option flow is crazy on coreweave as well. It's starting to get higher. Maybe we're going to get some news on Core Wee soon. But that one is getting getting some love right here. Celsius.
Where is Celsius today? 3409. That why why is Celsius down 5%. What is going on, dude? We have some random moves in this market and we don't have a lot of explanations for them. Even Google down 2%. Like, why was Google down? Celsius announced that its portfolio brand Alani News surpassed 1 billion in retail sales for the tra trailing 52-e period ended April 13th, 2025.
Retail sales increased 72% year-over-year. Why is it down 5%. I feel like that's that's that's a good piece of news. That's weird. Microsoft signs power contract for 335 megawws. Uh, that could be the core of news. That could potentially be the core of news. Microsoft, who is Microsoft signing this contract with? Hold on. Microsoft 335 megawws.
Again, uh, a lot of people think Microsoft's taking down their capex spend. It's realistically just, uh, diverting the capex spend, not like meaningfully taking it down. So that narrative right there to be bearish Nvidia doesn't doesn't make a ton of sense. All right. So uh Clearway signs 335 megawatt power deal with Microsoft for rear for repowered West Virginia wind farm.
Clearway Energy Group signed a long-term power purge agreement with Microsoft for the output of a 335 megawatt wind farm in West Virginia. Interesting. Okay. So I don't think this has to do with GPUs. Does this has to do with Microsoft sustainability and decarbonization goals? I I don't well I mean I mean you know this could have an impact on the data center plays like coreweave and VST and VRT but this more so has to do with climate stuff than anything.
Verive right here down about 1% of the day again. Meta basically flat pounder 11470 SoFi 1350 holding on to that 2%. Snapchat still up 1.64 64 and then S&P up about 0.24% right now. Each windmill is about 1 to 2 megawatt. Well, one could also argue that uh the reason they're doing this wind farm is because they need more energy for AI data centers.
And so even if it's uh the press release is saying it's about sustainability and decarbonization, it might be also used in in other ways for it to navigate. I mean, how many Grab shares do you have? So, I don't really have a lot of shares. Like, I think I have like a couple thousand shares. I realistically have a massive options position in Grab.
I have a six-figure option position for call debit spreads, 7.5 versus 10 bucks. 7.5 $10 call debit spreads for January 2027. So, I'm betting that Grab can get to 10 by January 2027. And that's why, you know, people say like, why are you so excited for a double? Well, if if it gets to 10, the options go up 7x.
And I think after a four-year consolidation at four bucks, a breakout if the company performs is likely. So the average on that you can say is about 445 450. Uh if you would equivocate the options pricing, it's 34 cents is my options price. So that's about basically 450 on the stock and that's where the majority of my position is. So um yeah, shares I mean like it's a couple thousand shares, nothing crazy.
I think it's like 2200 shares, but the actual main position here is in the the options. But we got to see. I mean, it's it's a big bet. It's a big risk. You know, it's six figures over the next two years. And and realistically, if if if we pump to like seven by the end of the year, and I think we're slowing down momentum, I'll probably d-risk sell some of those.
But, uh, the plan is to hold it because I genuinely do think 10 bucks by 2027 is possible. And again, you guys know when I when I first introduced my price target, I I spent time with my friend who's an investment banker in LA. He knows numbers way better than I do. We spent seven hours literally going through all the numbers because he got into the trade with me and he put in basically the same amount I put in.
And we did the same thing with Hood, but he sold Hood too early, so he didn't end up making a ton of money. But like realistically, it's it's we we think it's cheap and we think there's a lot of upside. And in this market, it's not like 2023 where everything can double or triple in a year.
So, I know a double in two years is aggressive, but given the thesis, I think it's it's possible. So, now we just got to see how it's how it's happening. How's the TLT trading going? Okay, so TLT, my average is 205. The options are currently 191. So, we're down about 8% on the $100 calls for TLT for January 2026.
Um, we need rates to come down realistically on the 10ear to 3.5. I think for TT to get closer to 100 uh which I think you know given the slowdown we're seeing in the economy right now we're at 4.18 which again we haven't seen in a couple weeks which is really nice to see. I think we're going to get these rates to come down. So I don't think it's crazy to to be hedged with TLT if you think that yields will come down but it's up to JPA at this point to get rates to come down.
10 year treasury right there 4.18% currently right now. Yes, it well it's technically a covered call. So for grab it's a call debit spread. I talked about this yesterday. I bought a call and I sold a call on top of it which means if grab tanks the sold call goes up in value. The bought call goes down in value which is a hedge against if you had naked calls where the the bought call just you know tanks if the stock goes down.
Um, but if if grabb explodes like 20 bucks, I lose I leave a lot of money on the table because uh of the sold call, which is a $10 sold call, which means my profits are capped between the width of the spread. The bought call is 750. The sold call is 10. 10 - 7.5 is 2.5. So realistically, 250.
If you multiply that by 100, I bought it for 34 cents. So if you divide 2.5 by.34, you get a 7x return. But Grab has to go to 10 bucks and so they've got about eight quarters to pull this off and we got to see if they can do it. What's going on with your robot investment? Nothing. It's just in Carta, which is a website for startup investments, and it's just sitting there.
So, I I'm not going to be liquid on that for like a long time, like until Figure goes public, if they ever go public or until electronic goes public. I mean, that money is basically not touchable for a while. So, I hope it works. If it doesn't, it goes away. But if it does, hopefully it's worth a lot more in the future.
All right, what other stuff do we have? I think these are the main headlines for the day. I mean, outside of the Russia stuff and the Atlanta Fed stuff, I don't see anything too crazy. Amazon again said they never considered listing import charges for the main Amazon site. And then we had Jolt data, which was bad, but technically good. So, that's pretty much it.
Okay, Lutnick's talking at 2 PM. I'm not going to be streaming when Lutnik is live because I have to finish a bunch of things and I have to do some stuff. So, I can't go live for Lutnik, but we'll cover it at 3:45 when we do go live for the market close. Um, but keep an eye on your portfolio at 2 p.m. Eastern.
You can calculate that for wherever you are in the world. I mean, when Lutnik talks, bad things tend to happen like that. We've just seen it over the past three weeks. So, I don't know what's going to happen to the markets. It's relatively green right now. Keep an eye for 2 PM and if you got any swing trades, you might just have to watch out for for when he goes live again.
Bent I thought would say something important and Lutnik would double down on what Bent said, but that didn't happen. Bent said nothing, literally. So what is Lutnick going to talk about, you know? So I'm kind of I'm kind of like confused. Why are they putting him on TV? Like is he gonna talk about bringing over millions of uh jobs for people to make iPhones in American factories? Like because that's obviously not going to be the the best uh commentary that I think people will be looking for.
So I will be tweeting about it though. So I'll I'll tweet whatever updates I can get at uh at for Lutnik at 2 p.m. So if you follow me on Twitter, link in the description, you can get the updates. But we'll go over the video at at 3:45. All right, cool. I think that's it for today. Uh, SoFi earnings incredible. Markets just not really respecting it yet.
Uh, rest of these companies, eh, earnings like a Spotify, like a PayPal, and uh, consumer confidence and Jolt data, not good, but technically that is good because we need JPAL to give us some cuts. And it looks like we are getting closer to that. Word of the day. Let's do word of the day. Let me pull this up right here.
By the way, guys, I think I'm going to get my new laptop like very soon because like even me trying to like share the tab right now, it's being slow and like this is being stupid. I have like five tabs open. I think this computer at this point is just cooked. I think I've I don't know. It's been two years and I guess this this hardware is not enough.
So, I think I'm going to be upgrading my computer very soon. Okay, word of the day is usurp. Usurp. We've heard this word before. To seize and hold a position or power by force. The king feared that his closest adviser would usurp his throne. The vice president of the HOH tried to usurp the president's authority by calling a secret meeting.
I think Trump has been usurping himself over Lutnik going on TV for the past couple weeks and the S&P rallied 15%. Maybe he's done usurping himself and we're gonna have to deal with what Lutnik says today. But at 2 p.m. we'll find out what he ends up uh what he ends up saying. I use Chrome, but like people have said to use Firefox and and Safari.
I've used other they're not that good. I've used Brave. I've used a couple different browsers. I think it's that this computer literally has 16 gigabytes of RAM and I need 64 at this point. Like I bought this two years ago and it was good at the time, but now it's like I just I I need more RAM.
I just this is getting a bit ridiculous here. So, um, yeah, I think I'm I think I'm going to get that computer by the end of this week because if I'm streaming seven, eight hours a day to have tabs open, like I'm not doing anything intense on the I'm not gaming. I'm not like editing movies or anything like that.
I just just need to be able to switch between tabs without being afraid that it's going to it's going to spam out. So, all right, cool. That's it for me. Thank you everybody. Appreciate you all. We'll be back at 3:45 and 3:45 we're uniquely going to be looking at a couple earnings. Snapchat, uh, First Solar, Visa, and Starbucks.
Those are the main ones that I want to look at. Snapchat I have a swing trade on, but Visa and Starbucks are gonna be very very important for the overall health of the economy in terms of payment transaction volumes and obviously in terms of um Starbucks and consumer subscriptions, consumer coffee, consumer ability to pay for the types of products that that Starbucks is offering.
This is going to be the first call with the Starbucks new CEO as well, Brian Nichols. So, uh it'll be important and we'll have to see what they end up saying. So, Snapchat, First Solar, FICO, that's another one. Visa, and Starbucks. Those are the main companies that we look. Oh, is SMCI today? Hold on. That was not on my calendar.
I think you're right. I think SMCI is today. Let me confirm. That'll be a big one for the semis. Um, no, I don't think it's I don't think it's today. They haven't made a press release that of when they're going to announce their their their Yeah, it's not today. That's probably like a brokerage giving the wrong the wrong date. All right, cool.
So, SMCI probably later. SMCI 7 days. Okay, makes sense. And then finally, we have Grap. So, the market close. Make sure you have some food and some drinks because we're starting at 3:45. We'll finish earnings by 4:30. Jason will be on at 4:30. Jason will probably be on till 7. And then at 7:30, we get the grab results and then the grab call at 8.
And then from 8 to 9, we have the call. So, realistically, I think we're doing 3:45 to 9:00 p.m. tonight. So, um, yeah, make sure you're ready. It'll be a long market close. Got a lot to talk about, but we will get into all of that later today. I'll try to get Steve on as well. He probably has some more thoughts on SoFi, so I'll try to get him on, uh, later today on the on the close. All right, cool.
Thank everybody. Appreciate it. I'll see you guys for the market close at 3:45 Eastern and I'll see you then. Bye, everybody.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp