Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
Enjoying the extension? Considerleaving a review🙏 Your feedback is greatly appreciated!
English (auto-generated)
Spotify is another big earnings mover today. You can see the shares boopping around after issuing a disappointing second quarter guidance. They were down as much as 8% pre-market. Looks like that action is continuing here. Our senior reporter Alexander Canal has the results. Hey Ally. Hey Maddie. Yeah, it's all about that guidance which we've heard from a lot of companies this earning season.
And this particular decline in the share price mostly focused on guidance from monthly active users otherwise known as MAUs. The company expects 689 million MAUs in the second quarter. That's below the 694 million analysts had expected. And these misses clouded pretty strong user growth that we saw in the first quarter.
We had premium subs rise 12% year-over-year. This was actually the strongest Q1 subscriber growth since 2020 and the second highest net addition for any quarter in the company's history. So strong start to the year, but an acknowledgement here from management that it will be bumpy, especially compared to 2024 when we had a lot of acceleration when it came to subscribers.
also an aggressive pace of margin expansion that's all supposed to slow in 2025. Daniel Ek talked about the uncertain macro picture on the earnings call, but he did say that Spotify is well positioned that the underlying data remains healthy. To that point, Wall Street analysts say that Spotify is really a defensive name, especially given the macro picture, similar to a company like Netflix.
It has a lot going for it when it comes to its various tiers. It's catering to the super fan. has audiobooks as podcasts and it's relatively cheap so it holds well in a recessionary environment. On the pricing side of things, Daniel E did say that pricing is a part of its strategy, but the company is very careful to enact price increases unless it's delivering value.
So, I don't know if we should expect any further price increases in the near term, but it's always a lever that the company has as it gets going. But despite the decline in shares today, we are still up about 100% over the past year. and Wall Street very bullish on this company. You know, it's in growth mode.
It's committed to this turnaround plan. It's finally making money. Um so really there's this there's this uh commentary on Wall Street that we don't need to worry about this report right now that the long-term uh future of this company is still well intact. So, it sounds like Wall Street is anticipating that despite the Q1 gross margin slowing and the year-over-year decline, Yeah.
that we saw that there's that opportunity for at least for them to pull price from consumers or extract more value there. They have those levers that they can pull. This is an uncertain backdrop. They're committing to the super fan experience, committing to the creator economy. They just said that they paid out $100 million to podcast publishers.
That includes those marquee names like Alex Cooper, Joe Rogan. So they have these other opportunities that they can lean on. And when you talk about the competitive landscape, Spotify is one of the top uh performers out there compared to, you know, your Amazon Music or your Apple Music. Brad, I know you're an Apple Music.
I'm a Spotify girl. Absolutely outing me. But but but people pay for these things, right? It's that it's, you know, recession proof in a lot of ways. And again, relatively cheap. I didn't know that you could have a a playlist created based on your ideal BPM. AIDJ on Spotify is great. Thank you guys so much, Ally. Thank you.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp