Transcript & Summary
Transcript
Summary
English (auto-generated)
[Music] Consumer confidence fell again in April according to the conference board. That's the fifth straight month of declines and the expectations index hitting its lowest level since 2011. That's well below the threshold that typically suggests an incoming recession. Here with some advice for increasingly nervous consumers, we've got Michael Leish, Wells Fargo head of advice and planning in studio with us.
Michael, it's good to see you again here. I mean, this is not fun data and a reading to talk about when it's showing a consumer that's a little tepid right now here on a consistent basis. What do you make of this reading here? So, consumer confidence and and you saw the data specifically mentioned tariffs as a concern and I think that's key here, Brad.
And so, when we think of tariffs, we think of uncertainty. Uh, consumers have undergone a lot with inflation rates. And so that's what we're seeing here is that consumer confidence just continues to decrease because there's still uncertainty with respect to how high prices will go and what should I do about it from a spending perspective. Right Brad? Absolutely.
And so as we think about that too, our our consumers I mean yes consumers are still spending but it's what they're spending on and how they're spending that is clearly changing here. What are you seeing within some of that data as well? So when we think of the data you can really parse it into three types of spending. one is and we'll label it doom spending, right? And given un uncertainty, I'm just going to engage in some type of re retail therapy and spend and really ignore what's going on around me.
Uh the second one is really your panic spending. So I want to, you know, get ahead of supply chain issues. I want to get ahead of increasing inflation. And the third type of spending is what we see actually most consumers engaging in. And we saw it in our Wells Fargo money study where over 80% of consumers want to be more intentional about they're spending carveoff money to save and invest for their future self just in case there is a recession just in case they have to manage through a job loss and then to ensure that they're looking
out for their future. So that speaks to a little bit of the potential panic buying that we might be seeing some of the current uncertainty and and within that certain uh that uncertainty rather it also comes back to what prospects look like for jobs in the employment front as well here.
We actually had seen the job openings and labor turnover summary uh come out this morning. Number of job openings essentially little changed 7.2 million in March and then additionally hires that held at 5.4 4 million total separations also little changed here. And so all these things in mind, it really does influence how consumers are thinking about their employment prospects and that also kind of dovetailing into where they're willing to spend at this juncture as well. Absolutely.
So when you think about being concerned about keeping a job or getting a job, which is what you're alluding to, really this idea of saving becomes increasingly critical and not just saving for opportunistic investing. Yeah. Which I know you talk a lot about on this program. Um, it's really saving to and and it's like that traditional emergency fund, Brad, to make sure I have six months, nine months, a year to accommodate my spending pattern so I wouldn't have to change anything dramatically.
You know, take a child out of school, you know, you know, think about not getting that remodel done that I've always wanted to get done to manage through that job, let's call it, shift or change. And so, we see a lot of Americans really being more intentional about that and carving off money so that they can plan for that rainy day. All right.
So, let's help people plan a little bit here. What are your tips for managing finances right now in this type of environment that consumers are clearly thinking through? So, what we see in our data is not everyone has a goals-based plan, Brad. And I know a lot of people talk about it, but they don't do it. And so taking action on that goalsbased plan, figuring out what is a top priority for you tactically.
So right now your essential expenses and stress testing that what could you lower to manage through a cycle all the way to those long-term goals like retirement. When are you going to retire? Are you in retirement? How long is that retirement going to be? How much do you need to manage through those essential expenses? That's really critical get to get in place.
Number one priority. Number two is look at the asset allocation. and you've been talking about this with different folks that you're investing toward. Does it need to change? Does your risk profile need to adjust because over the past couple years maybe there are certain positions that have gotten larger because they've run up in value.
Maybe there are other positions that you know have less in value and you could do a little bit of tax loss harvesting and rebalance that portfolio so it's in the right risk profile for you. Well, I'm not sure if you watched any of our segments about the micro retirements that Gen Z and millennials are powering, but I mean, look, it's got a lot of us trying to think about kicking the tires on that in the interim period of time, but managing investments right now, which is something that you you started to touch on there a moment ago as well.
How are you seeing people manage investments as they are trying to figure out where they can disperse cash versus where they also need to continue making sure they're being aggressive in their saving and investing habits as well. So, you talked about this with your uh prior guest Dave, this idea of liquidity.
People are really focused on liquidity in their portfolio. And so, you can think of that as a line of credit, you know, that's backed by their investments. You can think of that as more liquid investments and making sure you have access to cash in a bank account as well. So, people are really focused on this liquidity profile.
Then from there looking at their mid to long-term investment strategy and trying to stay the course with the risks that they've signed up for based on three factors. The goal, the time horizon or duration of the investment because time in the markets, Brad, you know this is better than market timing.
We've seen, you know, the ups and downs of the markets, best and worst days, very close together. We just saw it over the past couple weeks, right? Watched them watched them firsthand. So you don't want to turn and burn your portfolio by following the herd. So sticking with that plan and then dollar cost averaging into that plan so that you ride the ups and that you invest on the dips.
Brad, that's really the core approach that we see investors taking right now. I still have videos on my phone from some of the worst days and some of the best days that we've seen for major averages while I was on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. Michael, thanks so much for taking the time here with us today breaking this down. Thank you, Brad.
I appreciate it.
Made with ❤️ byGlasp